22.1 About Yale Appliance
Yale Appliance has been selling and servicing the people of Boston with all of their home appliance and lighting purchases since 1923. From the Great Depression of the late 1920s and early 1930s, to the dotcom explosion of the mid-90s and the Great Recession of 2008, Yale Appliance has persevered through it all.
How does a local appliance store maintain such longevity while many other businesses in their field have been forced to shutter their doors during periods of economic decline? They turned to their customers and started paying close attention to their habits, problems, and needs.
Steve Sheinkopf, CEO of Yale Appliance, is a perfect example of a business owner who caught on to content marketing at an early stage, when he went to a conference called In Planet back in 2004.
In Planet was the single greatest conference I’ve ever been to. HubSpot’s conferences are amazing, but this one was really foretelling of the future. They were saying things like, “While social media isn’t quite there yet for businesses, it soon will be.”
I also learned that the first thing a company needs to do is manage their reputation online, and the second thing is to find a way to control the conversation somehow.
In 2007, Sheinkopf decided it was time to take control of online conversations about home appliances by starting a business blog for Yale Appliance. He had always distrusted the measurability of traditional advertising, and he saw an opportunity with content marketing for a greater return on his investment and the possibility to measure that return with concrete numbers.
For four years, Sheinkopf was pleased with the online results he was seeing— a growing social media presence as well as a steady (albeit slight) uptick in monthly traffic.
As much as he personally despised traditional outbound advertising, there were times when he believed that he had no choice but to turn to it.
I’ve never been sold on advertising, even though we were doing some radio and television ads, and buying space in the Boston Globe. We were spending a lot of money. When the recession hit, I had read somewhere that refrigerators actually sold better during recessions like the Great Depression. So we advertised even more, but we didn’t really get anything out of it.
The recession forced Sheinkopf to reevaluate his business goals and plans.
When I was struggling during the recession, we had to ask ourselves the same two questions every other business has to: “How do I reduce expenses?” and “How do I add revenue?” And it usually boils down to the same answers: “I need to sell more, and I need to cut more.” And that’s really hard to do. Anybody with compassion hates to cut people.
It was during these tough economic times that Sheinkopf decided to explore further why his inbound marketing strategy wasn’t producing the results he was after, so he turned to the web for answers.