INTRODUCTION
This book will examine roughly two thousand years of Cambodian history.
Chapters 2 through 5 carry the story up to the end of the eighteenth
century; the remaining chapters deal with the period between 1794 and
2007. One reason for writing the book has been to close a gap in the
historiography of Southeast Asia. No lengthy history of Cambodia has
appeared since the publication of Adhémard Leclère’s Histoire du
Cambodge in 1914.1 Subsequent surveys, in French and English, have
limited themselves to the study of particular eras or have relied primarily
on secondary sources.2 Over the last sixty years or so, moreover, many of
Leclère’s hypotheses and much of his periodization—to say nothing of his
style of approach—have been revised by other scholars, weakened by new
documents, or altered by archaeological findings. The colonial era ended in
1953 and needs examination in terms of preceding history; moreover, the
so-called middle period discussed in Chapters 5 through 7 has often been
ignored even though it clearly forms a bridge between Angkor and the
present.
The time has come, in other words, to reexamine primary sources, to
synthesize other people’s scholarly work, and to place my own research,
concerned mainly with the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, into the
framework of a general history, with a nonspecialist audience, as well as
undergraduates, in mind.
As it stands the book examines several themes. One of these has to do
with the effects on Cambodian politics and society of the country’s
location between Thailand and Vietnam. This theme, which is discussed
in detail in Chapters 6 and 7, has been crucial since the second half of the
eighteenth century and has recently faded in importance. For over two
hundred years, beginning in the 1780s, the presence of two powerful,
antagonistic neighbors forced the contentious Cambodian elite either to
prefer one or the other or to attempt to neutralize them by appealing to an
outside power. Cambodian kings tried both alternatives in the nineteenth
century. Later on, Norodom Sihanouk, Lon Nol, and Pol Pot all
attempted the second; the regime of the State of Cambodia (SOC),
formerly the People’s Republic of Kampuchea, which lasted from 1979
until 1991, committed itself to the patronage of Vietnam. A UN
protectorate (1991–93) neutralized the contending foreign patrons of
Cambodia by removing it from Cold War rivalries. In the late 1990s
Cambodia and Vietnam joined the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN), and the Kingdom of Cambodia, established under that
name in 1993, has so far avoided seeking a dominant foreign patron,
although in recent years China has emerged as an increasingly important
ally and benefactor of the regime.
Another theme, really a present-day one, has to do with the
relationship of contemporary Cambodians to their past. The history of
Angkor, after all, was deciphered, restored, and bequeathed to them by
their French colonial masters. Why had so many Cambodians forgotten it,
or remembered it primarily as myth? What did it mean to have the
memories and the grandeur brought back to life, in times of dependence?
What happened to the “times between” Angkor and the modern era? And
in what ways are the post-Angkorean years, the colonial era, and what has
happened since 1954 connected to these earlier periods? How are the
revolutionary events of the 1970s to be remembered, taught, and
internalized? There has even been pressure from the government to play
down the teaching of Cambodian history as too controversial.
A third theme arises from the pervasiveness of patronage and
hierarchies in Cambodian thinking, politics, and social relations. For most
of Cambodian history, it seems, people in power were thought (by
themselves and nearly everyone else) to be more meritorious than others.
Older people were also ideologically privileged. Despite some alterations
these arrangements remained unchanged between Cambodia’s so-called
Indianized phase in the early years if the present era and the onset of
Theravada Buddhism in the fourteenth century, when some egalitarianism,
but not much, seeped into Cambodian social relations.3 The widespread
acceptance of an often demeaning status quo meant that in Marxist terms
Cambodians went through centuries of mystification. If this is so, and
one’s identity was so frequently related to subordination, what did political
independence mean?
A final theme, related to the third, springs from the inertia that seems
to be characteristic of many rural societies like Cambodia. Until very
recently, alternatives to subsistence agriculture and incremental social
improvements of any kind were rarely available to most Cambodians and
were in any case rarely sought, as the outcome could be starvation or
punishment at the hands of those in power. In the meantime, crops had to
be harvested and families raised, as they had been harvested and raised
before. The way things had always been done in the village, the family, and
the palace was seen as the way things should be done. Clearly, this attitude
suited elite interests and kept the rest of society in line, but the process
may well have been less cynical than we might wish to think. After all,
how else was stability to be maintained? Throughout Cambodian history,
in any case, governance (or rajakar, literally “royal work”) was the privilege
enjoyed by people freed in some way from the obligation of growing their
own food. The governed grew food for those above them in exchange for
their protection.
This conservative cast of mind has led some writers to suggest that, at
least until the 1970s, Cambodia and its people were unchanging and
asleep. The notion of changelessness suited the French colonial
administration, as it implied docility. For later observers there has been
something “un-Cambodian” about revolutionary efforts, however
misguided and inept, to break into a new kind of life and something un-
Cambodian about the country becoming a player on the global scene.
The notion of changelessness, of course, is an oversimplification of
events, but it has persisted for a long time among students of Cambodian
history and among Cambodians with a conservative point of view. The
notion will be undermined in this book, for each of the chapters that
follow records a major transformation in Cambodian life. The first
perceptible one came with the mobilization of population and resources to
form a somewhat Indianized polity at the start of the Christian era,
discussed in Chapter 2. Another followed the concentration of power at
Angkor in the ninth and tenth centuries, which is described in Chapter 3.
A state emerged at Angkor that some scholars have seen as a classic
example of Karl Wittfogel’s notion of oriental despotism or of Marx’s
concept of an Asiatic mode of production and which has bequeathed an
extraordinary legacy of religious monuments and sculpture.4 Still another
transformation, discussed in Chapter 4, overtook the Khmer when their
capital was damaged by Cham invaders in 1177 and was rebuilt into a
Buddhist city by the Khmer monarch Jayavarman VII, who was a
Mahayana Buddhist. In the century following his death in 1220, still
another transformation occurred: the conversion of most Cambodians
from a loose-fitting form of Shaivistic Hinduism, with perhaps some
Mahayana overtones, to Theravada Buddhism, the religion of the new
kingdoms that were coming into being in what is now central Thailand.
These changes are discussed in Chapter 5. The abandonment of Angkor in
the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries and the southward drift of
Cambodia’s demographic center of gravity in this period probably had even
more profound effects.
Because the sources are so thin and unreliable, the middle period of
Cambodian history, extending from the abandonment of Angkor to the
imposition of French control, is difficult to study, but it is clear that it was
very different from its Angkorean forebear. For one thing, the spread of
Theravada Buddhism (and its corollary, Thai cultural influence)
diminished the importance of priestly families close to the king who had
crowded around the throne looking for preferment. In Angkorean times,
these families had controlled much of the land and manpower around
Angkor through their connections with royally sponsored religious
foundations. As these foundations were replaced by wats (Theravada
Buddhist temples), the forms of social mobilization that had been in effect
at Angkor broke down, and so did the massive and complicated irrigation
system that had allowed Angkorean populations to harvest two or
sometimes three crops of rice per year. The elite grew less numerous as a
result of these changes and out-migration, while its interests became more
commercial.
Unfortunately for us, these transformations occurred in a very poorly
documented era. Through documents, we can examine Cambodian society
before and after the transformations, but not while they were taking place.
We have no clear idea, for example, why so many people changed religions
when they did or how the process played out. Although there were clearly
some economic incentives involved, it is hard to say why (and when) a
landholding Angkorean elite transformed itself into, or was replaced by, an
elite more interested in trade.
In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Cambodia became a
victim of its location. Its capital region (Phnom Penh/Udong/Lovek) lay at
the eastern edge of the Theravada cultural zone that included Burma and
Siam, and it was very close to the expanding southern frontier of Sinicized
Vietnam. The region, in other words, lay along a cultural fault line. This
fact affected the thinking and behavior of Cambodia’s leaders, drawn into
games of realpolitik that they could never expect to win. By the end of the
eighteenth century, Cambodia had been devastated by civil wars and
invasions from both sides; it was even without a monarch for several years.
The early 1800s, discussed in Chapters 6 and 7, formed perhaps the
darkest portion of the post-Angkorean era. By the mid-nineteenth
century, Cambodia was almost a failed state. After a brief taste of
independence under King Duang (r. 1848–60), the kingdom succumbed to
French protection. Its rulers probably preferred this state of affairs to
continuing Thai hegemony, but French rule soon came to resemble the
“civilizing mission” imposed upon Cambodia earlier by the Vietnamese
when the monarch’s autonomy had also been sharply reduced.
The economic, social, and cultural changes of the colonial period in
Cambodia resembled those that occurred elsewhere in Southeast Asia, but
they were less intense than those that affected Java, Burma, and the
Philippines under systematic colonial rule. As in these other colonies,
however, the changes that swept through Cambodia helped to put together
the framework for the Cambodian nation-state that emerged very briefly
in 1945 and again in 1953.5
The three most obvious transformations in the colonial era discussed in
Chapters 8 and 9, were in foreign trade, communications, and
demography. Rice and corn, grown for the first time in large quantities for
export, and rubber, grown for the first time altogether, now linked
Cambodia with the world outside Southeast Asia. Its economy, never
especially strong, became partially dependent on this outside world.
Nothing altered with political independence; most of Cambodia’s foreign
exchange throughout the 1950s and 1960s came from earnings on the
export of rice, rubber, and corn.
Perhaps the most visible difference between colonial and precolonial
Cambodia, however, had to do with communications. By the 1920s, one
could travel across Cambodia by car in a couple of days—a journey that
had taken months just fifty years before. Cambodians began moving
around the country by road and rail and found markets for their products
opening up. The social changes that accompanied this new freedom of
movement were obviously important, but they are hard to document
precisely.
Finally, for every Cambodian who had greeted the French (if the
image is appropriate) in 1863, there were four to say good-bye.
Cambodia’s population, estimated at slightly less than a million when the
protectorate was declared, had risen to more than four million by the early
1950s. By keeping the kingdom at peace and by introducing some
improvements in hygiene, the French presided over a demographic
revolution that, when it intensified in the 1960s, soon put serious pressures
on Cambodian resources. Since the 1980s these pressures have become
even more severe, and Cambodia now has thirteen million people.6
It is difficult to say how decisive the Japanese occupation of Cambodia
in World War II was, particularly as the French remained in nominal
control until March 1945. With hindsight, however, it is clear that the
summer of 1945, when Japan granted Cambodia its independence, had a
profound effect on many Cambodian young people. In the late 1940s after
the French returned, a new political ideology based on resistance rather
than cooperation and on independence rather than subordination also took
hold among many rural Cambodians, as well as in sectors of the Buddhist
clergy and the educated elite. Some of these people opted for a
revolutionary alternative to the status quo, occasionally with disastrous
effects. These developments in the 1940s and early 1950s, discussed in
Chapter 10, continued as an undertone to Cambodian political ideology
ever since.
Cambodia gained its independence in 1953, but its economy remained
much as it had been under the French. Under the relatively benign
dictatorship of the former king, now titled Prince Norodom Sihanouk,
which lasted from 1955 to 1970, education expanded, the economy
flourished, and the country enjoyed a period now regarded by most
Cambodians over fifty as a kind of golden age. By the mid-1960s,
however, as the Vietnam War intensified and as Sihanouk’s ability to
control Cambodia’s politics diminished, new forces came into play,
including a revolutionary movement dominated from the shadows by the
Communist Party of Kampuchea (CPK) led by a former schoolteacher,
Saloth Sar, who later took the name Pol Pot.
In March 1970 Cambodia’s National Assembly voted to remove the
prince from power. Soon afterward the new, pro-American government
declared that Cambodia had become a republic. This move, which ended
over a thousand years of Cambodian kingship, which was restored in 1993,
occurred in the context of a Vietnamese Communist invasion, U.S.
involvement in the Vietnam War, and a burgeoning civil war inside
Cambodia between the government and forces allegedly loyal to Sihanouk.
The latter were soon controlled by the CPK, and a brutal civil war lasted
until April 1975, when the Communists, known popularly in the West as
the Khmer Rouge, were victorious.
Over the next three years, many of Cambodia’s institutions were
destroyed or overturned, and the urban population, forcibly exiled from
towns and cities, was put to work alongside everybody else (except for
soldiers and CPK cadres) as agricultural laborers. The new regime
abolished money, markets, formal schooling, Buddhist practices, and
private property. In a headlong rush toward a socialist Utopia, nearly two
million Cambodians, or one in four, died of overwork, malnutrition, and
misdiagnosed diseases or were executed.
The regime of Democratic Kampuchea (DK) effectively destroyed
itself when its leaders decided in 1977, with Chinese encouragement, to
wage war on the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. By that time, economic
disaster in the countryside and uncertainty about the loyalty of highranking
CPK members had led Pol Pot and his colleagues to set purges of
the CPK in motion, during which at least fifteen thousand people were
executed at the regime’s secret prison after interrogation and after
providing detailed, but often spurious, confessions.7 Tens of thousands of
others, especially in the eastern part of the country, were later killed for
allegedly supporting the Vietnamese incursions of 1977 and 1978. These
men and women were said to have Cambodian bodies and Vietnamese
minds. Such actions hastened the collapse of DK and paved the way for a
Vietnamese invasion. After 1979, Cambodia, known as the People’s
Republic of Kampuchea (PRK) and later as the State of Cambodia (SOC),
struggled to its feet under Vietnamese protection. For several years, the
regime submitted to Vietnamese guidance and control, particularly in the
realms of defense, internal security, and foreign relations.
Throughout the 1980s, repeated votes in the United Nations
condemned Vietnam’s invasion of Cambodia and allowed DK
representatives to occupy Cambodia’s UN seat. Lacking diplomatic
recognition (aside from allies of Vietnam), the PRK was unable to obtain
development assistance, so the country’s economic recovery was slow.
Resistance forces, claiming loyalty to Sihanouk, the CPK, and an
amorphous middle-class grouping, found sanctuary in Thailand and
received political support from the United Nations that was spearheaded
by the United States and China. Throughout the 1980s, Pol Pot’s forces,
estimated at between twenty thousand and forty thousand armed men and
women, also benefited from extensive Chinese military aid.
The process of rediscovering and reshaping Cambodia’s identity, which
is not the same as reconstructing its prerevolutionary appearance,
continued through the 1990s and beyond, as did yet another
transformation whereby Cambodia today has become part of the wider
community of Southeast Asian nations and moved into the global
marketplace.
Given the importance of these successive transformations and because
coherent economic data about Cambodia are so scarce, this book says very
little about Cambodia’s resources or its economy, except in passing. Aside
from recent and sizable discoveries of oil offshore, as discussed in the final
chapter, these have been remarkably consistent over the two millennia to
be examined in the book. Developments in the manufacturing sector have
also been significant since the early 1990s.
In early times, as discussed in Chapter 2, the cultivation of grain,
probably wet rice for the most part, supported the people of the Mekong
Delta in the region known to the Chinese as Funan. Chinese accounts tell
us that farmers stored water in small, man-made ponds (trapeang in
Khmer) which they used for bathing and perhaps for irrigation, much as
they were to do until the upheavals of the 1970s, when Cambodia’s rural
economy expanded rapidly and to a large extent broke down. The
extensive hydraulic works at Angkor, discussed in Chapter 3, amplified
this earlier technology. The relationships among the seasons, water, rice,
and subsistence agriculture have remained crucial throughout Cambodian
history. Supplements to the diet, however, may have changed somewhat.
The amount of wild game has undoubtedly decreased, and in recent times
imported and processed items have become available. The mainstay
supplements, however—fish, roots, locally grown spices—appear to have
changed very little from one century to the next. The economy of Angkor,
now receiving detailed scholarly attention, is somewhat peculiar because,
unlike most neighboring states, the empire never used money of any kind.
Until very recently, Cambodia’s rural technology generally stayed the
same. Pots, sickles, oxcarts, unglazed pottery, and cotton cloth, to name
only five, appear to have changed little between the twelfth century, when
they appeared on bas-reliefs at Angkor, and the present day.
A third consistency in the Cambodian economy lies in the field of
exports. Until the colonial era when plantation crops that were grown for
export (primarily rubber, corn, pepper, and rice) transformed Cambodia’s
national economy, the goods Cambodia exported were, for the most part,
ones that grew wild in the woods. These included rhinoceros horns, hides,
ivory, cardamom, lacquer, and perfumed wood. Because these exports paid
for the luxuries imported by the Cambodian elite, it is important to note
the symbiosis that existed between woodland populations responsible for
gathering these products and the people who had settled in the agricultural
plains. This relationship is examined in a nineteenth-century context in
Chapter 6.
Another theme of the Cambodian economy is the country’s annual
victimization by monsoons. Like many other countries of Southeast Asia,
Cambodia has two distinct seasons rather than four. The rainy season,
dominated by the southeasterly monsoon, lasts from May to November.
The rest of the year is dry. Over the years, rice farmers and administrators
have calibrated their activities to the ebb and flow of these conditions. In
the wet season much of Cambodia is under water. As a result, in
precolonial times at least, military campaigns almost never began in wet
weather; at the same time, because there was little for farmers to do in the
fields once the rains had started, these months came to be favored by
young men who wanted to spend short periods on the move or in
monasteries as Buddhist monks.
Unlike the other countries of mainland Southeast Asia, Cambodia has
no mountain ranges running north to south that might provide barriers to
military penetration. Low ranges of hills mark off its northern frontier and
parts of Cambodia’s frontier with Vietnam. These have never posed serious
problems for invaders, either from Champa in Angkorean times or more
recently from Vietnam. Cambodia’s vulnerability to attack, especially after
the decline of Angkor, is a recurrent feature of its history and a theme of
its more recent foreign relations. Conversely, in its periods of greatness,
Cambodia expanded easily into the plains of eastern and central Thailand
and extended its authority into the Mekong Delta, not yet occupied to any
great extent by ethnic Vietnamese.
On the one hand, because Cambodia had no deep-water port of its
own until the 1950s, most overseas commerce reached the Cambodian
capital by coming upriver from the China Sea. On the other hand, foreign
influences like foreign armies tended to come overland. The conversion of
the kingdom to Theravada Buddhism discussed in Chapter 4 is an example
of this process of infiltration and osmosis.
The transformations and continuities I have listed came under attack
in 1975, when Cambodia’s historical experience was challenged and
discredited by Democratic Kampuchea, which worked hard to dissolve
continuities, real and imagined, between revolutionary Cambodia and
anything that had happened in earlier times.8 We also have little idea how
severe the damage was to rural Cambodian society during 1973 when U.S.
B-52 bombers from Guam and Thailand dropped nearly twice as many
tons of bombs on rural Cambodia as the United States had dropped on
Japan in World War II.
The damage to the countryside and the Communists’ repudiation of
the past had important effects on people’s memories and behavior. In the
twenty-first century, Cambodia is a country that has been scarred by its
recent past and identifies itself closely with more distant periods. It is the
only country in the world that boasts a ruin on its national flag.
The complexity of Cambodia’s past should encourage historians to
refrain from making rash predictions. It may still be too soon, and it is
certainly very difficult, to speak with assurance about the prospects for
Cambodian society in its partially globalized, postrevolutionary phase. But
the times that DK spokespersons were accustomed to call two thousand
years of history still remain relevant to recent events and to Cambodians
today. For these reasons, they deserve the sustained attention that the
following pages hope to provide.
2
THE BEGINNINGS OF CAMBODIAN
HISTORY
No one knows for certain how long people have lived in what is now
Cambodia, where they came from, or what languages they spoke before
writing was introduced, using an Indian-style alphabet, around the third
century CE. Carbon 14 dates from a cave at Laang Spean in northwestern
Cambodia, however, suggest that people who knew how to make pots
lived in the cave as early as 4200 BCE. Another cave, near the ocean, was
inhabited about a thousand years later. Presumably the first Cambodians
arrived long before either of these dates; evidence of a more primitive,
pebble-working culture has been found in the eastern parts of the country.
Skulls and human bones found at Samrong Sen, inhabited since around
1500 BCE suggest that these prehistoric Cambodians physically resembled
Cambodians today.1
Whether the early people came originally from what are now China
and India and from elsewhere in Southeast Asia is still debated by scholars,
as are theories that waves of different peoples moved through the region in
prehistoric times. But recent finds suggest that mainland Southeast Asia
had a comparatively sophisticated culture in the prehistoric era; some
scholars even attribute the first cultivation of rice and the first bronzecasting
to the region. In any case, it is likely that by the beginning of the
Christian era the inhabitants of what is now Cambodia spoke languages
related to present-day Cambodian, or Khmer. Languages belonging to the
Mon-Khmer family are found widely scattered over mainland Southeast
Asia as well as in some of the islands and in parts of India. Modern
Vietnamese, although heavily influenced by Chinese, is a distant cousin. It
is impossible to say when these languages split off from one another; some
linguists believe that the split took place several thousand years ago.
Khmer, then, unlike the other national languages of mainland Southeast
Asia—aside from Vietnamese—is not a newcomer to the area. This
continuity is one of many that strike students of Cambodia’s past. What is
interesting about the cave at Laang Spean is not merely that it was
inhabited, on and off, for so long—the most recent carbon 14 date from
the cave is from the ninth century CE—but that the methods used to
make pottery found at the earliest level, and the patterns incised on them,
have remained unchanged for perhaps six thousand years.
The “changelessness” of Cambodian history was often singled out by
the French, who in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries saw themselves
as introducing change and civilization to the region. Ironically, this theme
was picked up by Pol Pot’s revolutionary regime, which claimed that
Cambodians were asleep or enslaved for two thousand years. Both points
of view ignore a great deal of evidence; arguably, the revolution of the
1970s was the fifth major one that Cambodia has undergone since
prehistoric times. But prerevolutionary Cambodians were less
contemptuous of tradition than Pol Pot was. “Don’t choose a straight
path,” a Cambodian proverb tells us. “And don’t reject a winding one.
Choose the path your ancestors have trod.” Part of this conservatism,
perhaps, is characteristic of a subsistence-oriented society in which
experimentation can lead to famine and in which techniques of getting
enough to eat are passed from one generation to the next.
We know very little about the daily lives of Cambodians in prehistoric
times. We do know that their diet, like that of Cambodians today,
included a good deal of fish. It seems likely that their houses, from an early
date, were raised above the ground and made accessible by means of
ladders. Clothing was not especially important; early Chinese accounts
refer to the Cambodians as naked. After about 1000 BCE perhaps, they
lived in fortified villages, often circular in form, similar to those inhabited
nowadays by some tribal peoples in Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. Sites
of such villages have been excavated in eastern Cambodia.2 The
Cambodians, like other early inhabitants of the region, had domesticated
pigs and water buffalo fairly early, and they grew varieties of rice and root
crops by the so-called slash-and-burn method common throughout the
tropics as well as in medieval Europe. These early people probably passed
on many of their customs and beliefs to later inhabitants of the region,
although we cannot be sure of this, and there are dangers of reading back
into prehistoric and early Cambodia what we can see among so-called
primitive tribes or twenty-first-century peasants. We cannot be sure that
these modern customs have not changed over time. Hairstyles, for
example, changed dramatically in Cambodia as recently as the early
eighteenth century, and in the 1970s they were changed again by the
revolutionary regime.
All the same, it is unlikely that certain elements of Cambodian life and
thinking, especially in the countryside, have changed a great deal since
Angkorean times (from the ninth to the mid-fifteenth centuries) or even
over the last few thousand years. These elements might include the village
games played at the lunar new year; the association of ancestor spirits (nak
ta) with stones, the calendar, and the soil; the belief in water spirits or
dragons; the idea that tattoos protect the wearer; and the custom of
chewing betel, to name a few.
INDIANIZATION
The notion of changelessness dissolves, however, when we discuss the
revolutionary changes that suffused Cambodia at the beginning of the
Christian era. This was the centuries-long phenomenon known as
Indianization, whereby elements of Indian culture were absorbed or chosen
by the Cambodian people in a process that lasted more than a thousand
years.3 No one knows precisely when the process began or how it worked
at different times. All-inclusive theories about it advanced by French and
Dutch scholars usually put too little emphasis on the element of local
choice; a few writers, on the other hand, may have tended to exaggerate
the importance of local elements. Generally, as George Coedes has
remarked, scholars with training in Indian culture emphasize India’s
“civilizing mission,” while those trained in the social sciences stress the
indigenous response.4
Historians must deal with both sides of the exchange. The process by
which a culture changes is complex. When and why did Indian cultural
elements come to be preferred to local ones? Which ones were absorbed,
revised, or rejected? In discussing Indianization, we encounter the
categories that some anthropologists have called the Great and others, the
Little traditions, the first connected with India, Sanskrit, the courts, and
Hinduism, and the other with Cambodia, Khmer, villages, and folk
religion. In the Cambodian case, these categories are not especially useful.
We cannot play down the Great Tradition in Cambodian village life.
Where does monastic Buddhism fit in, for example, or Little Tradition
activities, like ancestor worship and folk stories, at the court? Village
wisdom always penetrated the court, and princely values enshrined in
Hindu epics and Buddhist legends, or jataka tales, penetrated village life.
Nowadays, urban and rural cultural traditions interact in Cambodia in a
similar fashion.
Nevertheless, the process of Indianization made Cambodia an Indianseeming
place. In the nineteenth century, for example, Cambodian
peasants still wore recognizably Indian costumes, and in many ways they
behaved more like Indians than like their closest neighbors, the
Vietnamese. Cambodians ate with spoons and fingers, for example, and
carried goods on their heads; they wore turbans rather than straw hats and
skirts rather than trousers. Musical instruments, jewelry, the alphabet, and
manuscripts were also Indian in style. It is possible also that Indians had
introduced cattle raising in Cambodia at a relatively early date; it is
unknown, to a great extent, in the rest of mainland Southeast Asia.
Trade between prehistoric India and Cambodia probably began long
before India itself was Sanskritized. In fact, as Paul Mus has suggested,
Cambodia and southern India, as well as what is now Bengal, probably
shared the culture of “monsoon Asia,” which emphasized the role played
by ancestral, tutelary deities in the agricultural cycle.5 These were often
located for ritual purposes in stones that naturally resembled phalluses or
were carved to look like them. Sacrifices to the stones, it was thought,
ensured the fertility of the soil. Cults like this were not confined to Asia,
but it is useful to see, as Mus has, that an Indian traveler coming across
them in Cambodia would “recognize” them as Indian cults honoring the
god Siva or one of his consorts. Similarly, a Cambodian visiting India, or
hearing about it, would see some of his own cults in those that honored
the Indian god.
During the first five hundred years or so of the current era, India
provided Cambodia with a writing system, a pantheon, meters for poetry, a
language (Sanskrit) to write it in, a vocabulary of social hierarchies (not the
same as a caste system), Buddhism, the idea of universal kingship, and new
ways of looking at politics, sociology, architecture, iconography,
astronomy, and aesthetics. Without India, Angkor would never have been
built; yet, Angkor was never an Indian city any more than medieval Paris
was a Roman one.
Indian influence in Cambodia was not imposed by colonization or by
force. Indian troops never invaded Cambodia, and if individual Indians
enjoyed high status, as they often did, it was partly by convincing local
people that they deserved it. When Indians came, at first as adventurers,
perhaps, or as traders, they were absorbed into the local population.
Perhaps just as often, news from India came via Cambodian traders who
had visited the subcontinent. Indianization never produced the identity
crisis among Cambodians that Chinese colonization and cultural
imperialism produced among the Vietnamese. Cambodia never resisted
India, which was not, in any case, a unified state. Moreover, unlike
Vietnam vis-à-vis Han China, Cambodia never looked to India—after the
fourteenth century or so—for ideas, approval, or advice. Indianization gave
a format and a language to elite Cambodian life, but it was not narrowly
political. Moreover, the hierarchical arrangements that came to
characterize the language and behavior of the Cambodian elite, although
owing something to Indian models, never sprang from a recognizable caste
system affecting Cambodian society as a whole. At the village level, caste
considerations never took root; what resembled a caste system at the
medieval Cambodian court, moreover, probably was little more than a set
of ritual procedures that showed respect for Indian traditions.6 Another
by-product of Indianization in Cambodia is that Cambodian nationalism,
unlike its Vietnamese counterpart, has not generally pictured itself as the
product of a struggle against foreign invaders and advice. Instead, national
identity, until recent times, was seen as the sum of social arrangements in
effect inside Cambodia. Indianization and elements of life that may be
traceable to India were merely components of the sum. The fact that they
came from India (just as our polysyllables so often come from Greece and
Rome) was not considered a reason for alarm.
Like many Southeast Asian countries, Cambodia has a legend that
originates with the marriage of a foreigner and a dragon princess, or nagi,
whose father was the king of a waterlogged country. According to one
version of the myth, a brahman named Kaundinya, armed with a magical
bow, appeared one day off the shore of Cambodia. The dragon-princess
paddled out to meet him. Kaundinya shot an arrow into her boat,
frightening the princess into marrying him. Before the marriage,
Kaundinya gave her clothes to wear, and in exchange her father, the
dragon king, “enlarged the possessions of his son-in-law by drinking up
the water that covered the country. He later built them a capital, and
changed the name of the country to ‘Kambuja.’”7
This myth is of Indian origin, as is the name Kambuja, and perhaps it
describes some obscure confrontation that had occurred during the
Aryanization of southern India rather than an event in Southeast Asia. But
if it is useless as a fact, it offers us an interesting starting point for
Cambodian history. In the myth, Cambodians see themselves as the
offspring of a marriage between culture and nature. Kaundinya’s
acceptance by his father-in-law, who drains the kingdom for him, is crucial
to his success. This idea would have been familiar to Cambodians, for until
recently a prospective bridegroom often had to gain his in-laws’ approval
by living with them before his marriage. In the myth, the local people (i.e.,
the dragons) respect the brahman and, in his honor, give the kingdom an
Indian name (which first appears in a Cambodian inscription in the ninth
century CE).8 Later on, many Cambodian monarchs would trace their
ancestry to this mythical pair, who represented, among other things, a
marriage between the sun and the moon. To be a legitimate king, it seems,
one had to be Cambodian and Indian at the same time.
FUNAN
Chinese officials recorded the Kaundinya myth; indeed, for the first few
centuries of the Christian era, written sources for Cambodian history are
almost entirely Chinese. These are supplemented by archaeological
findings, especially from the remains of an ancient trading city located near
the modern Vietnamese village of Oc-Eo in the Mekong Delta, excavated
during World War II by an archaeological team supervised by Louis
Malleret.9
Roman coins found at the site and at Angkor Borei date from the
second and third centuries, and some Indian artifacts, including seals and
jewelry, can be dated to the same period. Malleret believed that the port
declined in importance in the fourth century. No contemporary records
about it have survived, however, and we do not know what it was called by
its inhabitants.10 Because of its location, and some of the artifacts found at
the site, Malleret concluded that the port was used by pilgrims and traders
moving between India and China in the first centuries of the Christian era.
The size of the city suggests that it played an important part in this trade,
and its location was ideal for ships hugging the coast and “turning the
corner” from or into the South China Sea.11 The city probably provided
warehousing for goods in transit between India and China and was an
outlet for products collected from the forested interior of Cambodia and
Vietnam.
Until the twentieth century, forest products and precious metals made
up the bulk of Cambodia’s export trade. These included gold, elephants,
ivory, rhinoceros horn, kingfisher feathers, wild spices like cardamom, and
forest products such as lacquer, hides, and aromatic wood. Plantation
exports like rubber and pepper were developed in the colonial era; rice
exports, which made up the bulk of twentieth-century Cambodian foreign
trade, were also of little use in early times, when nearly everyone in the
region produced enough to feed themselves. The point to make about
these high-value, low-bulk goods is that they were cultivated or caught by
forest people rather than by the inhabitants of towns. Many of them
probably traveled considerable distances before they reached Oc-Eo, and
so did the goods or coins that traders used to pay for them.
Until very recently, many scholars believed that Oc-Eo was the seaport
for an important kingdom identified by Chinese sources as Funan and
located by George Coedes (using linguistic evidence rather than
archaeological findings) near the small hillock known as Ba Phnom, in
southeastern Cambodia, east of the Mekong. According to Coedes, the
word Funan derives from the old Khmer word for mountain (bnam), and
he located the ritual center of the kingdom at Ba Phnom. A cult to Siva as
a mountain deity existed in Cambodia as early as the fifth century CE and
may well have been enacted on Ba Phnom. An Indian traveler to China
reported that “it is the custom of the country to worship the celestial god
Mahesvara Siva. This deity regularly descends on Mt. Mo-Tam so that the
climate is constantly mild and herbs and trees do not wither.”12
Paul Wheatley has suggested that the cult originated in southern India
and that the mountain was not Ba Phnom but another hillock not far
away, in what is now Vietnam.13 The evidence that either mountain was a
cult site is stronger than the evidence that Funan was a major, unified
kingdom or that its political center was associated with either hill. What
made the place important to the Chinese was that a principality dubbed
Funan by the Chinese offered tribute to the Chinese emperor, on an
irregular basis, between 253 and 519. Stone inscriptions in Sanskrit and
Khmer from a century later are available for study; they do not provide
evidence for a major kingdom.14 It is possible, nonetheless, that small
chiefdoms in Cambodia occasionally banded together and called
themselves a kingdom for the purposes of sending tributary goods to
China (an ideal occasion for encouraging trade) or of seeking Chinese help
against their neighbors. It is also possible that Funan was thought to be a
major kingdom because the Chinese wanted it to be one and, later, because
French scholars were eager to find a predecessor for the more centralized
kingdom of Angkor, which developed in northwestern Cambodia in the
ninth century.
Despite their usefulness in many ways, Chinese sources for this period
present peculiar problems for the historian, as many of them uncritically
repeat data from previous compilations as if they were still true.
Nonetheless, Chinese descriptions are often as vivid as this one about
Funan:
The King’s dwelling has a double terrace on it.
Palisades take the place of walls in fortified
places. The houses are covered with leaves of a
plant which grows on the edge of the sea. These
leaves are six to seven feet long, and take the
form of a fish. The king rides mounted on an
elephant. His subjects are ugly and black; their
hair is frizzy; they wear neither clothing nor
shoes. For living, they cultivate the soil; they
sow one year, and reap for three. . . . These
barbarians are not without their own history
books; they even have archives for their texts.15
There is evidence that the major step during the Funan period toward
the integration of the small, dry-rice-growing and root-cultivating
principalities, whose people worshipped Siva, with hunting and gathering
societies inland from Oc-Eo was the introduction, perhaps as late as 500,
of systematic irrigation; drainage probably came earlier. We have seen in
the Kaundinya myth that drainage was attributed to the good offices of a
dragon king, but the most important passage related to this innovation,
and to Indianization, is Chinese, one which appears at first to be a garbled
version of the original myth:
Then a Brahman named Kaundinya ruled the
kingdom. A spirit announced to him that he
would be called upon to govern Funan, so he
traveled there . . . and the people of Funan came
out to meet him, and proclaimed him king. He
changed the institutions to follow Indian
models. He wanted his subjects to stop digging
wells, and to dig reservoirs in the future; several
dozen families could then unite and use one of
these in common.16
Seventh- and eighth-century inscriptions refer to rice fields adjacent to
religious foundations that are suggestive of irrigated rice, and aerial
photographs of the Mekong Delta show silted-over canals, which may
have been used for drainage as well as transport.17 If irrigation was widely
used before the ninth century, it was not on an especially large scale and,
with the exception of the seventh-century agglomeration of Isanapura
(now known as Sambor Prei Kuk, near Kompong Thom), the village was
the most characteristic unit of pre-Angkorean Cambodia. Indeed,
Isanapura probably consisted of villages grouped around a common ritual
center, whose stone buildings have survived. Even after the introduction of
wet-rice technology, perhaps in the fourth or fifth century, the area under
irrigation, which is to say, under the control of supravillage organizations,
was never very great. Moreover, it seems likely that most villagers in the
hinterland continued to grow dry rice and to cultivate roots,
supplementing their diet by hunting and gathering, long after irrigation
and wet-rice cultivation had taken hold in comparatively Hinduized
communities.
People, rather than land per se, are needed to cultivate wet rice.
Keeping in mind this fact, as well as the low density of the population in
the entire area (always excepting Java, Bali, and the Red River delta in
Vietnam), it is easy to see why, throughout Southeast Asian history,
overlordship and power were so often thought of and pursued in terms of
controlling people rather than land. Population pressure, of course,
probably impelled some Cambodian rulers, perhaps including Jayavarman
II, to take control over new territory where the population could be
deployed to grow rice. There were periods of Cambodian history, under
Jayavarman VII in the twelfth century, for example, when far-flung
territorial control was an important part of a king’s prestige. Nonetheless,
control over territory per se (mere forest in most cases) was rarely as
important as controlling people.
Indeed, the notion of alienable ownership of land, as distinct from land
use, does not seem to have developed in pre-Angkorean Cambodia. Land
left fallow for three years reverted to state control. The king, theoretically
at least, was the lord of all the land in the kingdom, which meant that he
could reward people with the right to use it. Many of the Cambodianlanguage
inscriptions from the Angkorean period, as we shall see, dealt
with complicated disputes about access to land and labor resources. The
record of inscriptions and, by inference, of architectural remains from the
first eight centuries of the Christian era fails to provide evidence of largescale
unified kingdoms on Cambodian soil and aside from Angkor Borei
very little evidence of the development of urban centers. There seems to
have been some continuity among members of the elite, traceable in part
to their tendency to marry among themselves, as we learn from surviving
inscriptions.
At the same time, it seems likely that the territory we now call
Cambodia, like much of the rest of early Southeast Asia, contained a
collection of small states, each equipped with a court and an elite, and that
these segments had entourages, or “strengths,” of people growing food for
them who could also be called upon to fight. Presumably, these chiefdoms
traded among themselves and raided each other, particularly for slaves. It
also seems likely that each king, when undisturbed (or when disturbing
others), thought of himself as a universal monarch, benefiting from Indian
teachings, as well as a local chieftain, performing identifiable Cambodian
tasks.
Leadership was measured to a large extent by prowess, which was
measured by success in battle, by the ability to attract a large following,
and by demonstrated skill at performing religious rituals and providing
protection. As J.D.M. Derrett has pointed out, protection, along with
rainfall, is the sine qua non of peasant society: protection from enemies,
from rival overlords, from the forces of nature.18 In recognition of this
necessity, overlords in the time of Funan and throughout Cambodian
history often included in their reign-names the suffix varman (originally
“armor”; hence, “protection”).
The overlords themselves thought that they could not live without
supernatural protection, and most of them sought this, in part, through
their devotion to Siva. Here they were assisted, for a time at least, by a
group of Indian brahmans, the so-called pasuputa, who enjoyed a vogue in
India and elsewhere in Southeast Asia around the fifth and sixth
centuries.19 These wandering ascetics preached that personal devotions to
Siva were more rewarding than meticulous attention to brahmanical rituals
or to the law of destiny, or karma. Technically, an overlord’s devotion did
not require the intercession of the pasuputa, and some of them presumably
did without it. In any case, these self-made Hindus were perceived, and
saw themselves, as superior men, vehicles of Siva, the god who “ceaselessly
descended” onto a holy mountain. The transmission of Siva’s potency via
the overlord and his ritual acts to the people and the soil was an important
source of cohesiveness in Cambodian society.20 It has also been a source of
continuity. As late as 1877, human sacrifices to a consort of Siva were
conducted at Ba Phnom at the beginning of the agricultural year. Like
those described in fifth-century Chinese sources, these had the objective of
transmitting fertility to the region and, like the Chinese rituals, they were
sponsored by local officials.21
In the Funan era, Buddhism also flourished in Cambodia, and the
Buddhist concept of merit, which still suffuses much Cambodian thinking
about society, resembles, in some ways, the notions of prowess and
salvation just discussed. In both schemes of thought, power and ability
were seen—especially by those who did not have them—as rewards for
virtuous behavior in previous lives. The loss, diminution, or absence of
power, moreover, revealed to people that a previous existence had been in
some way flawed. A person’s status in society, therefore, was programmed
by someone else’s performance in the past, and one’s behavior here and
now determined where one would stand when one returned to life. To
improve personal status, then, one could accumulate merit by performing
virtuous acts, like subsidizing a temple or being generous to monks,
donating a gilded image of a god, or sponsoring religious festivals. Acts
like these were thought to redeem the person performing them. As we
shall see, the great temples at Angkor were also thought of as redemptive
gestures of this kind, as bargains struck by kings with their immediate
ancestors and, through them, with the gods. No one at the time or later
could see if the bargains were a success, but the thought of neglecting to
make them, especially when the afterlife meant a return to earth, occurred
seldom if at all.
The notions of patron, client, and entourage become important during
later stages of Cambodian history—they are certainly useful keys to
nineteenth-century Cambodian society, and to some extent Cambodian
political life today—but it would be dangerous to assume that precisely
similar arrangements were in effect in Cambodia in the sixth and seventh
centuries. We seldom know how overlords came to power, for example, or
how they recruited followers. We do not know what made followers linger
in their service, or often what the services entailed. The evidence suggests
that we can describe pre-Angkorean society in Cambodia as an
aggregation of leaders and followers, occupying spaces of territory and
spaces in society that were thought about in terms of centers and
peripheries, corresponding to the Indian concept of mandalas although the
term itself was not used in a political sense in Cambodia at the time. With
a multiplicity of centers, Cambodia was decentralized; segments of what
we would call “society” (i.e., the total of the aggregations) acted
independently of each other or were related in sporadic ways.
Things were not quite as simple, however. Localized religious cults,
like the ones Evéline Porée-Maspero and others examined in Cambodia in
the 1940s and 1950s,22 generally stressed the welfare of the community
rather than that of the individual, for without communities to perform the
work, irrigated rice cannot be grown. Rural life requires alliances. The
human sacrifices at Ba Phnom were one example of this communal
orientation. Others included the complex of rituals still ushering in the
agricultural year today—the sacred furrow, the towers of sand, and so
forth; the royal cults that in effect negotiate with the dead for the welfare
of the kingdom; and the boat races that take place in flooded rivers at the
end of planting. Although these cults at first appear to be antagonistic to
each other (the Great and Little traditions once again), in fact they are
complementary.
Because genealogies were not maintained in Cambodia, except among
the elite, the nak ta, or ancestor people, had no family names. They thus
became the symbolic ancestors of people in a particular place, or by dying
in a place they came to patronize its soil. Nak ta in inhabited sites could be
spoken to and tamed; those in the forest or in abandoned places were
thought to be more powerful and more malignant. As a place was
inhabited, ancestral traditions over the years gathered around it, although
seldom to the same extent as in China or Vietnam.23 The pre-Angkorean
record is almost silent about nak ta, but we can assert, by reading back
from modern data, that a confrontation between Hindu and local beliefs
was less frequent than was a blending of the two.
The tendency to syncretize, in fact, was noted by early Chinese visitors.
The passage that refers to Siva’s continuous descent onto Mt. Motan, for
example, also mentions a bodhisattva, or Buddha-to-be, that was held in
reverence at the time. Occasionally, two Indian gods were blended with
each other, as Siva did with Vishnu to form Harihara, a composite deity
much favored by Angkorean kings. By combining the attributes of Siva,
the creator and destroyer of worlds, with those of Vishnu, the preserver,
Harihara provided a range of inspiration, and displayed an ideal monarch’s
ability to hold contradictory forces in balance.24
The process of blending different religions meant that here and there
local spirits received the names of Indian gods, just as localized Greek and
Roman deities were renamed in the early years of Christianity. Hindu
temples also were often built near sites favored by pre-Indian celebrations;
there are Neolithic remains underneath the palace at Angkor.25 What was
being stressed at times like this was the continuity of habitation and a
continuity of sacredness—ideas in themselves that had deep roots in
Cambodian culture. If ancestors became Indian gods in times of
centralization and prosperity, the gods became ancestors again when the
rationale for Hinduism and its priestly supporters diminished or
disappeared. Thus, at Angkor, and in Cham sites in Vietnam studied in
the 1930s by Paul Mus, Indian images and temples were worshiped in
quite recent times not as emanations from India but as mysterious
products of the nak ta.26 This is partly because the literature of the Cham
and Cambodian elites, which was used to explain and justify the images
and temples, had disappeared or could no longer be deciphered, while the
language village people used in their religious lives remained to a large
extent unchanged from the pre-Indian era to colonial times.
The most enduring cult, as Paul Mus has shown, was the cult of the
lingam, or stone phallus. This widely diffused motif, and the cults
associated with it, exemplified links between ancestor spirits, the soil
where they and the lingam “grew,” and the fertility of nearby soil for
agricultural use. Because of the territorial aspect of the cult (a lingam could
be moved from place to place, ceremoniously, but was only potent in one
place at a time) and the notion that the lingam was a patron of a
community, it was closely supervised by local overlords and by the king in
the Angkorean era. As early as the fifth century according to Chinese
sources, a cult honoring a mountain god at the hill of Lingaparvata in
southern Laos—nowadays known as Wat Ph’u—involved human
sacrifices; the site was notable because it contained an enormous natural
lingam, some eighteen meters (fifty-nine feet) high.27 Lingaparvata, like
Ba Phnom, was patronized as an ancestral site by several Angkorean kings.
The period of Funan, then, which lasted until the sixth century, was
one in which Cambodia’s political center of gravity was located south and
east of present-day Phnom Penh. During this period, trade between India
and China was intense, and one of the principal components of this trade
was Buddhist religious objects. Local religious practices emphasized
devotion to Siva, Vishnu, and the Buddha as well as to minor and local
Hindu deities, particularly female ones, known as kpoñ.28 Politics centered
on villages and groups of villages, rather than on a tightly organized
kingdom; irrigated rice allowed for surpluses and for some social
differentiation, as Michael Vickery has argued, but not as much as
developed later on. The main point to stress about the period, from a
historian’s point of view, is that we know about it from Chinese sources,
which tell about local customs, centralization, and commodities for trade.
We hear no Cambodian voices, as we do from the seventh century onward
in the form of stone inscriptions. After the waning of Funan, in fact, our
sources become richer and harder to use.
GOVERNMENT AND SOCIETY IN EARLY
CAMBODIA
The first dated Khmer-language inscription from Cambodia was incised in
611, and the earliest Sanskrit inscription was carved two years later.29
There are some two hundred datable inscriptions, in both languages, from
the seventh century, and these give us a picture of the way Cambodian
society was put together. According to the inscriptions, Cambodian society
was divided, informally at least, into those who understood Sanskrit and
those who understood only Khmer. For several hundred years, Sanskrit
was used in inscriptions that supposedly addressed the gods. Khmer, on
the other hand, was the predominant language of Cambodian men and
women, those who were protected by the gods and descended, as gods did
not, from their ancestors and the highly localized nak ta. Sanskrit
inscriptions, in verse, praise the actions of kings and the elite, such as
building Hindu temples, sponsoring Buddhist monasteries, winning wars,
and offering gifts to monks and brahmans. Some of the speakers trace or
doctor their genealogies, as if to cash in on or invent ancestral merit; many
praise brahmans at the expense of other segments of the society; and all are
fulsome in praise of those in power, who have, after all, allowed the
temples to be built and the stone inscriptions to be incised. Much of the
verse, according to Indianists, is highly polished, subtly worded, and well
composed, comparing favorably with Sanskrit poetry composed in India at
the time.
Khmer inscriptions, on the other hand, are all in prose. They record
the founding of temples and the details of temple administration, such as
the numbers and names of people attached to a particular foundation.
They also give inventories of temple treasures and list the dimensions of
rice fields, orchards, and ponds (trapeang) in a temple’s jurisdiction. Many
of them outline the duties of slaves and set the amount of taxes, payable in
labor or in kind, levied to support the temple priests. Many of them close
with a curse—always in Khmer—threatening people who neglect, rob, or
disrupt the temple in question with punishment over many generations.
A little too neatly, perhaps, the line between Sanskrit and Khmer
separates the so-called Great and Little traditions. On the one hand, there
are wealth, poetry, intricacy, wordplay, priests, and access to the gods, i.e.,
a language that protects. On the other, there are poverty, prose,
straightforward catalogs, slaves, and the world of ordinary people, i.e., a
language about what receives protection. Both sets of inscriptions used the
same sort of alphabet derived from India and, as a rule, were carved by the
same masons. Presumably poets and priests, if they wanted to do so, could
read them both. But were they intended to be read? In general, they were
accessible enough, carved on temple door posts or on freestanding steles;
probably the texts were also kept on perishable material in archives
somewhere else. The reason they were carved at all may have been that
writing on stone, the medium of the gods, served a special purpose. Stone
was not used in secular sites; these, including palaces and ordinary
dwellings, were built of wood, bamboo, and other perishable materials.
Sanskrit, moreover, was said by the elite to be the language favored by the
gods; stone was associated with permanence, which is to say, the dead. In
incising the stones, Cambodians were speaking, collectively, to their
ancestors; the inscriptions themselves, if in Sanskrit, spoke the language of
the gods. A curse, or an oath of allegiance, inscribed on stone was thought
to be stronger.
Moreover, the juridical aspect of the inscriptions should not be
overlooked. By recording land grants on stone, for example, it was thought
that beneficiaries would be recognized and protected; similarly, curses (in
Khmer) might serve as burglar alarms and preserve the sites from
depredations.
The division between Sanskrit and Khmer was also the division
between those who grew rice and those who did not. It was everyone’s
ambition to be “rescued from the mud,” but very few were. Most of those
were placed, in Angkorean times, into various varna, or caste groupings,
which made up perhaps a tenth of the society as a whole. These people
included clerks, artisans, concubines, artists, high officials, and priests, as
well as royal servants, relatives, and soldiers. Because they seldom served as
slaves, and only a few of them were important enough to patronize a
temple, these people appear rarely in Cambodian inscriptions. This
omission means, among other things, that we never know the names of the
people who designed and carved the magnificent statuary and temples of
Angkor. By the seventh century, in fact, the city of Isanapura was already
the most extensive complex of stone buildings in all Southeast Asia, built a
century ahead of similar constructions in Java. All the same the presence of
these free people somewhere between the summit of society, as symbolized
by the king’s palace and his sacrificial mountain, and the rice fields that
surrounded them should not encourage us to call them a bourgeoisie or
even a middle class, because those terms are not transferable and our
information about these people is too sparse.
The connotations of Western-oriented social terms like these bedevil
us when we look to other Cambodian social groups. We have already
noted that the term “king,” or raja, probably meant less in Funan than it
did in medieval Europe. Another important term, knjom, which can be
translated as “slave,” seems to have meant something more ambiguous to
the Khmer than our word slave. For one thing, as Judith Jacob has shown,
knjom was only one of some fourteen categories of slaves in pre-Angkorean
Cambodia.30 They had many levels of social status, different origins, and
many kinds of duties. Those toiling in the fields resembled black slaves in
the antebellum American South. Others, especially those attached to
temples, may have seen themselves as enjoying quasi-clerical status. And
yet, as all of these groups of people apparently could be bought, sold, and
given away and had no freedom to escape, they were not servants either.
Many of them were probably bondsmen working off debts contracted by
themselves or by their parents. Were they serfs? The question should make
us wary of the interchangeability of terms, and Communist statements in
the 1970s that early Cambodia was feudal are inaccurate even when it is
clear that the society was exploitative and divided sharply between haves
and havenots. The evidence that connects slaves to places is incomplete,
although some of them appear to have been attached to certain places for
several generations. This suggests hereditary servitude, or a liability to be
called on, and being attached to a place rather than to a particular lord.
Some villagers were free to grow their own rice but were not free to move,
others appear to have been owned by temples, still others by members of
the elite. Practice and theory seem to have varied from time to time and
from place to place; generalizations about Cambodian society in this
period are difficult to make.
Evidence from inscriptions suggests that slaves of various kinds may
well have made up the majority of the Cambodian population at any given
time. Free peasants were liable to calls on their time and energy to perform
public works, favors for an overlord, or service to a temple or to serve in
wars. Many of them, in fact, were either prisoners of war or their
descendants.
The slaves themselves pass in and out of Cambodian history as mere
names. These are a mélange of Sanskrit and Khmer words. From one
inscription to another, they range from respectful references (some knjom
are referred to by the equivalent of Mr. or Ms., for example) to derogatory
ones, in which slaves have names like “dog,” “imperfect,” “red-inthe-face,”
and “bad-smelling.” By and large, slaves with recognizably Sanskrit names
(such as “loves justice,” the “slaves of Siva,” or, merely, Dharma) tended to
have slightly higher status than the others, and many of them may have
served as musicians and dancers. Many of their names would be
recognizable in Cambodia today; the names of flowers, for instance, are
still widely used for girls.
Another difference between pre-Angkorean slaves and those of the
antebellum United States is that the villages they lived in, the food they
ate, and the beliefs they shared were not very different from those found in
times of freedom (whatever the term meant to a rice farmer at this time) or
from those of the masters whom they served. If the knjom had been
uprooted, they usually came from fairly similar cultures; the gap between
the city and the countryside was not yet meaningful or wide. As servants of
temples, moreover, many knjom participated in rituals that punctuated the
year, such as the times when gilded images were washed, clothed, and
paraded around a temple, or when the eyes of a Buddha-image were
ceremonially opened. They crowded around royal processions and made
decorations for palanquins as these passed through. The knjom lived in the
vicinity of grandeur. Among themselves, they probably explained grandeur,
in turn, in terms of merit and merit in terms of protection. They saw
themselves as engaged, like others in the society, in plotting their own
redemption. What better way to do this than to serve the priests who
served the temple gods?
A ninth-century statue buried in the forest near Kompong Cham.
Author’s photo.
We can come to these tentative conclusions by reading back from
recent Cambodian life or by studying bas-reliefs, statues, artifacts, and
inscriptions. But as almost always in Cambodian history, we write the
peasants’ words, as it were, without having access to their voices. What
would they have said? It is difficult to imagine without asking a second
question: To whom would they be talking? Among themselves, of course,
most Cambodian peasants are frank and egalitarian, but they take few risks
in the presence of outsiders. The peasants’ apparent acceptance of
superiors has led some scholars to argue for an essential harmoniousness in
traditional Cambodian society. But Cambodian history is filled with
rebellions and civil wars, and events since 1970 should make us wary of
writers who insist on a natural passivity among Cambodian peasants. The
absence of peasant voices makes it almost as hard, all the same, to make a
case for persistent tumult as for harmony. Most of the time there was
plenty of cause for both.
Ninth-century statues abandoned in the forest near Kompong Cham.
Author’s photo, 1962.
Yet, pre-Angkorean Cambodia, and perhaps even Angkor itself, was
not an integrated despotic state. Instead, it was a collection and a sequence
of principalities sharing a somewhat despotic language of politics and
control. Because the rulers of these principalities, some of whom were
women, saw themselves as absolute, they were rivals of each other and thus
independent. And yet throughout the eighth century (a period about
which Chinese sources are silent, for no tribute from Cambodia had
arrived) Cambodia was becoming more politically coherent in a process
masterfully described, using Khmer-language inscriptions, by Michael
Vickery. Integration involved increased population, increased wet-rice
technology, alterations in patterns of local authority and apparently
random inputs, like victories in war or protracted periods of peace. As
Cambodia’s center of gravity continued to shift northward, the area of
Aninditapura, in the vicinity of present-day Angkor, grew in importance
in relation to the principalities along the upper Mekong, at Sambor, and
elsewhere. The distribution of pre-Angkorean inscriptions indicates that
the more populated sections of Cambodia—as in the twentieth century,
but not in the Angkorean era—were along the banks of the Mekong and
lower Tonle Sap, particularly to the south of present-day Phnom Penh,
with other settlements along the upper Mekong near present-day Kratie.
Until quite recently, scholars sought to consolidate this assortment of
small kingdoms under the name Chenla, which was given to one of them
by the Chinese and preserved in nineteenth-century Vietnamese as a name
for Cambodia. The Chinese, in fact, distinguished between two Chenlas,
one associated with the Mekong Delta (and known as “water Chenla”) and
the other (“land Chenla”) apparently located somewhere on the upper
reaches of the Mekong, perhaps near present-day Wat Ph’u in southern
Laos. The Chinese were not averse to exaggerating the importance of the
so-called barbarian states from which they received tribute. European
scholars in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, perhaps forgetting the
multiplicity of kingdoms that had characterized medieval Europe or
precolonial Africa, also chose to see Chenla as a centralized successor state
to Funan, thus making a neat progression from the earliest of these
“mighty” kingdoms to the one concentrated at Angkor.31
In a brief and persuasive essay, however, Claude Jacques has crippled
the usefulness of this interpretation:
Inscriptions give evidence in the Khmer country
of a multitude of little realms and princedoms;
those which the Chinese called Funan and
Chenla, on grounds unknown so far, were
among them and may have been the most
important. It seems that some princes managed,
sometimes, to take the leadership of a more or
less large collection of realms; but this situation
was to all appearances only temporary.32
It is clear nonetheless that by the seventh and eighth centuries, coastal
trading states in Cambodia like Funan (and others like it elsewhere in
Southeast Asia) had faded or changed into polities farther inland, known
in the Cambodian case by the collective term Chenla. The wealth of these
new kingdoms derived primarily from extensive wet-rice agriculture and
the mobilization of manpower rather than from subsistence agriculture and
trade. Ideologies from India, which survive today in architecture, sculpture,
and inscriptions, seem to have played a prominent role in molding and
directing these societies, perhaps because ideas of this hierarchical kind
were useful in legitimizing the extraction of surpluses more or less by force.
Rituals may have become associated with wealth as time went on, and
wealth may have become tied to supernatural skills, in a process of state
formation ably discussed by Vickery and Jonathan Friedman among
others.33 It is impossible, however, to recapture the process from the
documents that have survived. What is important in terms of the sweep of
Cambodian history is that the geographical and economic shifts of the
seventh and eighth centuries reversed themselves in the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries and that, just as the first set of changes can be
associated with the formation of Angkor in the ninth and tenth centuries,
the second set can be associated with the establishment of a less
monumental, less ambitious, and somewhat more outward-looking state
centered in the area of present-day Phnom Penh.
3
KINGSHIP AND SOCIETY AT
ANGKOR
Scholars usually place the Angkorean period of Cambodian history
between 802 and 1431. In fact, these years mark neither a beginning nor
an end. The northwestern part of Cambodia, where the state we know as
Angkor (the name derives from the Sanskrit word nagara, meaning “city”)
sprang up in the ninth century, had been inhabited by Khmer-speaking
peoples for several hundred years. Moreover, although much of the city
was abandoned in the fifteenth century, it remained an inhabited site and
was restored as a royal city briefly in the 1570s. More important, one of its
major temples, Angkor Wat (i.e., the city-temple), was probably never
abandoned by the Khmer, for it contains Buddhist statuary from every
century between the fifteenth and the nineteenth and inscriptions on its
walls from as late as 1747.1 When the Angkor complex was “discovered”
by French missionaries and explorers in the 1850s, Angkor Wat contained
a prosperous Buddhist monastery inside its walls, tended by several
hundred hereditary slaves.
These dates 802 and 1431 are useful all the same, for they mark off
Cambodia’s period of greatness. At various times in these six hundred
years, Cambodia—known in its own inscriptions as Kambuja-desa—was
the mightiest kingdom in Southeast Asia, drawing visitors and tribute
from as far away as present-day Burma and Malaysia as well as from what
were later to be Thai kingdoms to the west.
SOURCES FOR ANGKOREAN HISTORY
At the same time, these periods of systematic domination were infrequent
and relatively short. We know too little about social conditions at this
time, moreover, to classify all Cambodian kings as despots. Some of them,
as far as we can tell, accomplished little or nothing; others left scores of
inscriptions, temples, statues, and public works. Some kings ruled over a
centralized, multileveled administration; others seem to have controlled
only a few hundred followers. One fact that emerges from studying the
kings in order—as L.P. Briggs, George Coedes and Claude Jacques have
done—is that they were able to command a variety of people.2 Seen from
the top, where written records emerge, the Angkorean period is easy to
generalize about but hard to penetrate. Seen in terms of artistic styles,
media, and motifs—including the facility of Cambodian poets in Sanskrit
—it is possible to talk about progress, development, and decline without
being able to say why some periods were supposedly progressive and others
decadent. Seen from the bottom, it is easy to generalize again about
continuity between that era and much more recent times, but we are still
handicapped by the poverty of our sources.
Sources, indeed, pose major problems. Those connected with
inscriptions written in Sanskrit or in Khmer have been discussed in
Chapter 2, but it is important to see how the biases of these documents
produce a skewed picture of Cambodian society at Angkor. The Sanskrit
poems proclaim the grandeur of kings; the Khmer inscriptions exhibit the
precision with which jurisdictional squabbles were prosecuted and slaves
registered. Here and there, we can use inscriptions to cross-reference
official careers; here and there—especially when they provide inventories
of temple treasures and personnel—they give us a glimpse of material
culture. But it is as if U.S. history had to be reconstructed from obituary
notices, wills, deeds, Fourth of July orations, and little else.
These kinds of documents, of course, are meticulously dated. With
some exceptions, therefore, the chronological framework of Angkor,
particularly for the monarchs who reigned there, has been reconstructed
after having been forgotten by the Cambodians themselves. The job of
chronological reconstruction was never easy; it occupied much of the career
of perhaps the greatest scholar associated with early Southeast Asian
history, the French savant George Coedes (1886–1968). Coedes was
unwilling to speculate about matters not dealt with by inscriptions, and he
left his successors with a variety of tasks concerning the corpus of
Cambodian inscriptions he established.3
The inscriptions themselves, being dated, are rooted in time. Being
parts of permanent buildings, some of which have all but disappeared, they
are rooted in the landscape too. In spite of this, with rare exceptions, the
inscriptions are not the place to look for details of life among Cambodia’s
rural population, or for clear statements of the political process as it
operated at Angkor and elsewhere in the empire. Instead, they usually refer
to extraordinary events—contracts entered into by people and gods—
observed from “above” in poetry or from “below” in prose. The history they
give us is comparable, in a way, to the lighting and extinction of hundreds
of torches, here and there, now and then, over the landscape of mainland
Southeast Asia. As each is lighted, we can look around and discern a few
details of historical fact: Temple X was dedicated to such and such an
Indian god, by so and so, on such and such a date. It had a particular
number of slaves attached to it, identified by name and sex, and with
children identified in terms of whether they could walk or not. The temple
lands stretched east to a stream, south to a small hill, west and north to
other landmarks, and then the light goes out. We know little about the
way this temple fitted into the context of its time, whether its patrons
enjoyed official status, or whether the temple remained in use for months
or centuries. In some inscriptions, descendants return to the site to restore
it in honor of their ancestors; other temples seem to have lasted only as
long as individual patrons did.
The other sources we have for the study of Cambodian history are the
temples themselves, and the statues and bas-reliefs they contain, as well as
artifacts dating from Angkorean times that have been unearthed
throughout Cambodia. These tell us a good deal about the sequence and
priorities of Cambodian elite religion, about the popularity of certain
Indian myths, and about ways in which they reflect the preoccupations of
the elite. They also tell us about fashions in hemlines, hairstyles, and
jewelry; these have been used to arrange a chronology of artistic styles. The
bas-reliefs are informative about weapons, armor, and battle tactics; those
from the thirteenth-century temple-mountain, the Bayon, are a rich source
for details about everyday Cambodian life.
So in addition to deeds, obituary notices, and orations, we can work
with tableaux showing the people of Angkor for the most part disguised as
mythical figures and with bas-reliefs showing them going about their daily
business. What is missing from our sources are documents that stand
above the others, giving an overall view of the society, or those that in a
sense come from underneath it, providing details about taxes, land
ownership, life stories, and folk beliefs.
JAYAVARMAN II AND THE FOUNDING OF
ANGKOR
What happened in 802? The Sdok Kak Thom inscription, incised in 1050
in what is now southeastern Thailand, has been for many years a major
source for Cambodian chronology and religious history, but some of its
assertions have recently been called into question by several scholars. The
inscription tells us that in 802 the monarch we call Jayavarman II came to
the Kulen hills to the north of what was to become the Angkor complex
and participated in a ritual whereby he somehow became a “universal
monarch.”4 The ceremonies also celebrated a cult with which the
inscription is particularly concerned, that of the devaraja, a Sanskrit term
that translates as “king of the gods,” unquestionably a cult linking the
monarch with Siva. The ceremony had apparently been preceded some
years earlier by an “auspicious magic rite” celebrated by Jayavarman at the
cult site of Ba Phnom in the southeast.5
Jayavarman II and his son, Jayavarman III, left no inscriptions of their
own, thereby encouraging scholars to suggest that the importance granted
to these kings as founders of Angkor has been exaggerated. The Sdok Kak
Thom inscription is primarily concerned with the sacerdotal family that,
for more than two hundred years, officiated at the devaraja celebrations.
And yet the biographical details that the inscription provides are very
useful. Jayavarman II apparently resided in five parts of Cambodia at
different times in his career. He appears to have moved from the southeast,
near Ba Phnom, to the upper Mekong Basin, near Sambor, before moving
west to occupy Aninditapura, to the north and east of the Tonle Sap,
where he may have presided over a city and the construction of several
small brick temples.
What was Jayavarman doing in these places? Even with all the facts we
know about him—they are more extensive than for many later kings—
there is still something mysterious about him. Who was he? Where did he
come from? In a persuasive essay, Claude Jacques has argued that he
arrived (or returned) from a place called Java (perhaps the island of that
name, perhaps a kingdom in Sumatra, or even someplace else) around 770
when he was about twenty years old.6 One of his first actions, according to
a tenth-century inscription found in the area of Ba Phnom, was to perform
a ceremony that “made it impossible for Java to control holy Cambodia.”
We do not know what the ceremony involved or why Jayavarman II was
impelled to declare his independence at this time and in this way. Coedes
has pointed out that although the ceremony clearly preceded the one
performed on Mt. Kulen, it could easily have been one of several, in many
parts of the kingdom, as Jayavarman moved through them over the next
thirty years.
The references are tantalizing and incomplete. Was the ceremony
performed at Ba Phnom imported from Java? Or was it one that linked
Jayavarman II with ancestral spirits at Funan? The ceremony was
important enough to be noted in an inscription concerned primarily with
other things two centuries later. Given Ba Phnom’s enduring importance
as a cult site, as recently as the 1940s, the second explanation is tempting,
but evidence to support it is lacking.
The rest of Jayavarman’s early career has been traced by Jacques,
Michael Vickery, and Oliver Wolters.7 It primarily involved a series of
military campaigns and the formation of alliances, through marriages and
grants of land, with locally powerful people willing to transfer some of
their allegiance to a newcomer claiming to be a universal monarch. An
undated inscription gives the borders of Jayavarman II’s kingdom as being
“China, Champa, the ocean, and the land of cardamoms and mangoes”—a
land perhaps located in the west.8
The assimilation of the Angkorean region into Kambuja-desa occupied
more than twenty years. No inscriptions have survived from this period,
and temples appear to have been small or made of perishable materials.
These undocumented years are crucial all the same, for at this time the
related notions of nationhood and kingship, remolded to fit the
Cambodian scene, appear to have been gathering force. Both terms should
be used with caution. Nationhood may have meant little more than having
a name (Kambuja-desa) with which to contrast one’s fellows with
outsiders. Cambodians were insiders, owing their allegiance to a particular
“universal” king, whose relation to them resembled Siva’s relationship with
the other gods. Perhaps both these ideas came in from Java, but they were
probably already known from the Indian literature of statecraft, familiar to
brahmans known to have been in Cambodia at this time.
The evidence for these suggestions springs from inscriptions carved
long after Jayavarman’s death. But Wolters, Vickery, and Jacques have
argued convincingly that in his progress through Cambodia the future king
welded together an assortment of disparate regions into some sort of selfaware
community. Whether or not Jayavarman II succeeded in this task
(or even if the task was what he had in mind) is open to question because
of the obscurity that surrounds his reign. But it is clear that the kings who
came after him honored him as the founder of a kingdom and as the
instigator of a particular way of looking at Cambodia unlike what their
own, perhaps more provincial ancestors had been able to achieve.
Jayavarman II also served a more practical purpose. Cambodian folk
thinking has always placed great emphasis on the veneration of ancestors,
or nak ta, associated with particular places. Once the royal capital of
Cambodia came to be at Hariharalaya (present-day Roluos), where
Jayavarman II finally settled, subsequent kings came to honor him as a
kind of ancestral founder-spirit of the sort that every Cambodian village
possessed until recently.
Although it is no longer tenable to say that the cult of the devaraja was
in some way a ritual process by which a king became a god, or a god-king,
the evidence of ritual and ideological connections between almost all
Cambodian kings and the god Siva is extensive, even if the devaraja cult as
such may not have been as important as the authors of the Sdok Kak
Thom inscription and many subsequent scholars would like us to believe.
The cult, in other words, was a royal cult, rather than the definitive one.
Hermann Kulke has argued that the cult involved a statue of Siva, himself
devaraja, or king of the gods, that was paraded through the streets of
Angkor—and other royal capitals at festivals—in remembrance, perhaps,
of the role the cult had played at the beginning of the Angkorean period,
when Jayavarman II freed Cambodia from Java. Other scholars have
different opinions.9
YASOVARMAN AND HIS SUCCESSORS
Jayavarman II’s son, Jayavarman III, came to the throne young, hunted
elephants, and died after ruling “wisely” in 877.10 The writer who provided
this information had a special interest in continuity, after all, with regard
to the devaraja cult, for the Sdok Kak Thom inscription presumes, perhaps
mistakenly, that the rulers who patronized the devaraja cult were the
legitimate and unique rulers of Cambodia. This may have become the case,
especially after the middle of the tenth century, but it is interesting that
Jayavarman III’s successor, the first to embark on a systematic program of
temples and inscriptions at Hariharalaya, made only one muted reference
to this predecessor, tracing his own legitimacy to relatives of a wife of
Jayavarman II (not Jayavarman III’s mother) and to a pair of “kings” about
whom nothing else has come to light. Presumably, this was a way of
casting his genealogy far beyond Jayavarman’s usurpation, thus connecting
him with the pre-Angkorean rulers.
In fact it was this very king, Indravarman (r. 877–89) who himself was
a usurper, which may account for his muddled genealogy. His reign is
important because it was the first of many to be marked by a triadic
pattern of royal behavior described in the 1930s by the art historian
Philippe Stern.11
The first phase was to sponsor irrigation works in honor of his subjects
and the watery divinities of the soil. During Indravarman’s reign, a large
reservoir was constructed at Hariharalaya to trap rainwater. It was known
as the Indratataka and covered three hundred hectares (approximately 650
acres). An inscription tells us that as soon as Indravarman became king, he
made this promise: “In five days, I will begin to dig.”12 Another purpose of
such reservoirs was to indicate the extent of a king’s power, and of his
alliances with the gods, by re-creating the geographical features associated
in people’s minds with Mt. Meru, the mythical home of the gods, where
lakes surround the central mountain. This north Indian fantasy, translated
to waterlogged Cambodia, is not devoid of irony; but neither are Gothic
towers in many U.S. college towns.
The second phase was for a monarch to honor his parents and his
other ancestors by installing statues of them, usually in the guise of gods.
Indravarman sponsored statues of his parents (as well as of others,
including his mother’s parents and Jayavarman II and his wife, all depicted
as embodiments of Siva and his consort) in the stuccoed brick temple
complex known today as Preah Ko (Sacred Cow).
This charming temple, completed in 879, inaugurated what is now
called the Roluos style of Cambodian architecture.13 In this style, several
features that were to become important later—including the custom of
enclosing temples in a series of concentric moats and walls—appeared for
the first time. The sophistication of the carving and the predominance of
floral motifs suggest that these skills had been developed earlier by carving
wood. Although of modest size in comparison with later temples,
Indravarman’s monuments of Preah Ko and Bakong, his templemountain,
were far more grandiose, in conception and appearance, than
anything that had preceded them and hint at developments in religious
ideology and social mobilization for which other evidence is lacking.
An inscription from Preah Ko (“In battle, which is like a difficult ocean
to cross, he raised a pathway, made up of the heads of his arrogant
enemies; his own troops passed over on it”) indicates that Indravarman had
become a universal monarch by subduing unspecified contenders. As the
inscription also tells us, “It seems that the creator, Indra, tired of making
so many kings, had fashioned this king named Indravarman, [literally,
‘protected by Indra’] to form the joy of the three worlds, uniquely.”14
Inscriptions far from Roluos suggest that Indravarman at least briefly
commanded loyalties in northeastern Thailand and the Mekong Delta.
One inscription, carved in honor of one of his teachers (himself a cousin of
Jayavarman II) extends the earlier rhetoric:
Ruler of the entire world which he had
conquered, established on the slopes of Mt.
Meru, he was even steadier than the sun, which
occasionally was distant.
Atop the lordly heads of the kings of China,
Champa and Yavadvipa [Java?] his reign was
like a flawless crown, made from a garland of
jasmine flowers.15
Statements like this about kings, which may strike us as flowery, were
circumscribed by the traditional characteristics of the gods which the kings
were being made to resemble. The poet’s skill was thought to consist of
piling up these characteristics and half concealing some of them behind
metaphors, similes, and puns. Just as the verses enumerated ways in which
a king was like the god, the temples were catalogs and pictures of the
world of the gods, a sort of mirror image. In this sense, the temples can be
seen as puns, or plays on words, and mirror images of another world.
The final phase of Indravarman’s program, as detected by Philippe
Stern, was to erect a temple-mountain. This is now known as the Bakong,
and it took the form of a stepped pyramid. Unlike the reservoir, or the
Preah Ko, the Bakong was dedicated to the king himself and was to serve,
after his death, as his sarcophagus. Coedes estimated that thirteen
Angkorean kings, beginning with Jayavarman II, built such temple
mountains.16 Not all of them have survived, and those that have can be
read in different ways. First, they were planned as duplicates of the
mythical mountain, Mt. Meru, which stood north of the Himalayas at the
center of the universe. Like Mt. Meru, they were homes for the gods and
for deceased worthies, not only kings, who had been assimilated into
heaven. They were also tombs, housing the ashes of the king. In some
cases, particularly Angkor Wat, they were astronomical observatories as
well.17
Bakong was the first Cambodian temple to be built primarily of stone
rather than brick; it was also the first, with the possible exception of the
eighth-century temple of Ak Yom, to have a pyramidal shape. The temple
was reconstructed by French archaeologists in the 1930s, but by then
nearly all of its bas-reliefs had disappeared.
Indravarman’s son, Yasovarman, who reigned from 889 to about 910,
was an important king. His inscriptions and his buildings suggest that he
wanted to do more than his father did and to focus Cambodia around a
royal city. Yasodharapura, the “city” of Angkor, bore his name until it was
abandoned in the 1500s.
Yasovarman’s first official action appears to have been to endow “a
hundred” religious hermitages, equipping each with a royal rest house and
a set of regulations.18 Twelve nearly identical inscriptions related to these
hermitages have been discovered. Two are near Roluos. Six of the others
are from southeastern Cambodia, where Yasovarman, through his mother,
claimed family connections from pre-Angkorean times. The spread of the
inscriptions suggests that Kambuja-desa was becoming a recognized
concept as well as an ideal.
Soon after this, Yasovarman honored his parents by building four brick
temples, now known as Lolei, on an island he built in the middle of his
father’s reservoir. At the northeast corner of the reservoir—a time-honored
direction in Cambodian religious thinking19—he built a raised highway
running northwest toward the area sixteen kilometers (ten miles) away
where he planned to establish his capital city. This area now houses the
Angkor complex.
Yasovarman’s choice of Angkor was probably influenced by his plan to
build his own temple-mountain there on the summit of a natural hill. The
choices available to him included a hill (Phnom Krom) that was too close
to the Tonle Sap and another (Phnom Bok) that was too far away.20 He
constructed small temples on these two hills, however, and built his main
temple on the hill known today as Phnom Bakheng and then as phnom
kandal (“central mountain”), which still lies close to the center of the
Angkor complex.
The Sdok Kak Thom inscription tells us that Yasovarman “established
the royal city of Sri Yasodharapura and brought the devaraja from
Hariharalaya to this city. Then he erected a central mountain (phnom
kandal).”21 Yasovarman’s mountain was not identified as Phnom Bakheng
until the 1930s. In conception and execution, it is far more grandiose than
any of his father’s monuments. Its symbolism has been studied in detail by
Jean Filliozat, who has shown that the number of levels, statues, towers,
and stairways, when read separately and together, correspond to various
numbers, particularly 33 and 108, endowed by Indian religion with
metaphysical significance. In some cases, pilgrims approaching the
monument would be able to catch this allusion by counting the number of
towers they could see.22
To the east of Phnom Bakheng, Yasovarman built a reservoir, the
Yasodharatataka, roughly 6.5 kilometers (four miles) long and three
kilometers (two miles) wide. Along its southern shore he had monasteries
built for sects that honored Siva, Vishnu, and the Buddha. Elsewhere
throughout his kingdom, he ordered temples built on natural hills, the
most notable being Preah Vihear, on the edge of the precipice that
nowadays forms part of the frontier between Cambodia and Thailand.23
These activities suggest that Yasovarman was able to command a far
larger pool of manpower than his predecessors had. Yasovarman’s
inscriptions show him to have been a cosmopolitan monarch, aware of the
grandeur of Indian civilization and tolerant of different religious beliefs. As
usual, however, the sources reveal very little about his political activities,
his alliances, or his idiosyncratic ideology. We have tantalizing glimpses of
administrative reforms, including evidence that, in Yasovarman’s legal
code, fines were levied in relation to one’s ability to pay and a suggestion
that taxes were efficiently collected, in kind, throughout the kingdom. But
for the most part we must settle for proclamations of his greatness, such as
“He was a lion-man; he tore the enemy with the claws of his grandeur; his
teeth were his policies; his eyes were the Veda. His glory was like a roar in
all directions; his virtues made up his name.”24 Here, as so often in
Sanskrit versification, many of the words are deliberate double entendres;
the phrase “his eyes were the Veda,” for example, plays on the similarity
between the verb to see and the noun sacred teaching. These double
meanings, as we have seen, appear at many points in Angkorean verse, as
well as in the architecture of the temples.
Yasovarman died around 910. He was succeeded in turn by two of his
sons. Little is known about them, and by 921 a brother of one of
Yasovarman’s wives was established in a rival city at Koh Ker, in an
inhospitable area about one hundred kilometers (sixty-two miles) north of
Angkor. The rival soon began to perform kingly actions, such as building a
reservoir and beginning work on a temple-mountain. In 928, when the
reigning king died at Yasodharapura, the Koh Ker ruler proclaimed
himself king with the title Jayavarman IV. Work continued on his templemountain,
known today as Prasat Thom, until about 930. The temple
itself, housing a lingam estimated to have been eighteen meters (fifty-nine
feet) high and about five meters (sixteen feet) in diameter (and probably
made of metal, or encased in metal, for it has disappeared), was in fact the
highest of the temples erected in Cambodia, with the exception of Angkor
Wat.25 Jayavarman IV’s inscriptions boasted that the construction
surpassed those of previous kings.
We do not know the basis of his colossal self-esteem, the nature of his
following, or what prompted him to shift the capital from Yasodharapura.
Although Jayavarman IV’s extravagant claims may seem hollow or
pompous to us, it is clear that, by force or persuasion, he was able to rule at
Koh Ker over large numbers of people and in considerable splendor for
twenty years. The site contains over forty temples constructed in this short
period. His influence may well have extended into what is now
northeastern Thailand where several temples in the Koh Ker style have
survived. After his death in 942, one of his sons reigned briefly, and in 944
one of his nephews (on his mother’s side, a nephew of Yasovarman as
well), returned to Yasodharapura as King Rajendravarman II. In the words
of a later inscription, this king “restored the holy city of Yasodharapura,
long deserted, and rendered it superb and charming by erecting houses
there that were ornamented with shining gold, palaces glittering with
precious stones, like the palace of Indra on earth.”26
Although little is known about Rajendravarman’s reign, his imitation
of procedures enacted by Yasovarman, such as building a temple honoring
his ancestors in the middle of a lake, indicates that he wished to restore
Angkorean kingship rather than to start a dynasty of his own or to connect
himself with Jayavarman’s brief dynasty at Koh Ker. Under
Rajendravarman, two elegant temple-mountains, the Mebon and Pre Rup,
were built as well as numerous other temples, especially in the north. His
reign appears to have been peaceful, except for a successful campaign
against Champa, and it ushered in a period of prosperity at Angkor that
lasted for almost a hundred years. One aspect of this prosperity is the
literary polish of Rajendravarman’s Sanskrit inscriptions. One of these, the
Pre Rup stele, runs to almost three hundred stanzas, glorifying
Rajendravarman’s genealogy, his learning, and his performance as king.27
Another aspect of his reign was the commercial expansion of the Khmer
kingdom westward into what is now northeastern Thailand; a third was his
public tolerance of Buddhism. Rajendravarman appears to have studied
Buddhism himself, and the minister in charge of public works throughout
his reign was a prominent Buddhist.
Rajendravarman died in 968 and was succeeded by his son Jayavarman
V, who was still a boy and appears to have spent several years under the
close supervision of relatives and high officials. These men and their
families figure largely in the highly polished inscriptions that have come
down to us from his reign. One of the loveliest of the temples in the
Angkor region, now known as Banteay Srei (Fortress of Women), was
dedicated at the beginning of the reign by an official who was later
Jayavarman’s guru or tutor.28 There is evidence that this delicate, smallscale
temple, carved of pinkish sandstone, once served an important urban
area, about sixteen kilometers (ten miles) north of the main Angkor
complex. In 1916, when the region was heavily wooded, the temple was
discovered by a French surveying party.
Although Shaivite like his father and many of the brahmans at the
court, Jayavarman V was tolerant of Buddhism, and Buddhist scholarship
flourished during his reign. An elegantly written inscription from Wat
Sithor in Kompong Cham dating from this period shows how syncretic
Buddhist thinking inside Cambodia had become, fusing elements of
Buddhism and Shaivism in a way that led the nineteenth-century scholar
Emile Senart to note, “Everywhere one senses a manifest preoccupation to
disturb people’s habits as little as possible, and to submerge deep
differences inside surface similarities.”29 Inscriptions play down
Jayavarman V’s role as a builder of temple-mountains. His own, the Takeo
temple, appears to be unfinished.
Jayavarman V’s death in 1001 ushered in a turbulent and destructive
period, but by 1003, another king, whose origins are unknown, was
reigning at Angkor although the rest of the kingdom was not under his
control. In the north, a prince calling himself Suryavarman, later to be king
as Suryavarman I, was mentioned in several inscriptions.30
Some scholars have argued that neither of these kings was Cambodian
by blood. As Michael Vickery has recently shown, however, Suryavarman
was almost certainly a Cambodian member of an elite family with links to
the northeastern part of the kingdom.31 It is intriguing that the blueprint
used by Suryavarman to take power in the first decade of the eleventh
century so closely resembles the one followed two centuries before by
Jayavarman II. The process involved sporadic warfare as well as the
formation of coalitions—by force, marriage, and cajolery—that enabled the
pretender to reduce or buy off the power of local chiefs. Vickery suggested
that Suryavarman had powerful allies among the priestly families that
dominated the government at Angkor, and inscriptions of the time show
him moving slowly westward, toward a partly depopulated capital, over a
period of years—in itself an indication of the intricacy of his alliances.
Suryavarman won his final battle, an inscription tells us, “from a king
surrounded by other kings.” One new element in his rise to power is his
patronage of Buddhism, although he apparently was not a Buddhist
himself. There is evidence from hostile inscriptions that as he rose to
power he destroyed vrah, or religious images,32 but the meaning of this
charge is unclear. Had Suryavarman been a Buddhist, the destruction
might represent iconoclasm pure and simple. It is more likely that it was
connected with the delegitimation of certain religious foundations whose
patrons had been slow or unwilling to cooperate with him. Another
inscription, in fact, suggests that during his reign the king deliberately
impoverished members of the elite who had amassed great fortunes and
thus represented distinct political threats.
One of Suryavarman’s first actions in reaching Yasodharapura was to
arrange that an oath of loyalty be sworn to him publicly by as many as four
thousand officials, known as tamvrac, at the newly constructed royal
palace. The oath has survived in a lengthy inscription, the only one of its
kind, that states that the officials will be loyal to the king, and adds:
If all of us who are here in person do not keep
this oath with regard to His Majesty, may he
still reign long, we ask that he inflict on us royal
punishment of all sorts. If we hide ourselves in
order not to keep this oath . . . may we be
reborn in the thirty-second hell as long as the
sun and moon shall last.33
The oath ends by asking that those who keep it be awarded religious
foundations to administer as well as food for their families as “recompense
due to people who are devoted to their master.” Loyalty, in other words,
was to be rewarded by the right to extract surpluses from regions under
some sort of control by tamvracs, who were linked together by their
allegiance to the king. The oath marks an intensification of royal power
and also the imposition of a newly constituted, or reconstituted, elite
connected to the control of land.
Suryavarman’s reign, in fact, was characterized by the intensification of
several aspects of kingship, coming at a time when bureaucratic power
rivaled or even surpassed the power of the king. Suryavarman expanded the
territory under Angkorean control, colonizing the western end of the
Tonle Sap with new religious foundations. Further away, in the same
direction, he annexed the Theravada Buddhist kingdom of Louvo,
centered on present-day Lopburi in central Thailand. He also expanded
the hydraulic works at Angkor, in a move that suggests that his other
policies had increased the population of the city.
Under Suryavarman, priestly and bureaucratic functions seldom
separate in practice were institutionalized. Government-sponsored
religious foundations became conduits for government revenue and
largesse in ways that remain obscure but that probably were connected
with the power of priestly-bureaucratic families around the king.
His administration was an urbanizing one. A French scholar, Henri
Mestrier du Bourg, has shown that, whereas for the preceding three reigns
roughly twenty toponyms contained in inscriptions end with the suffix
pura, or “city” (cf. Singapore, the “lion city”), under Suryavarman the
number jumped to forty-seven, further evidence that his rise to power
involved herding people into conglomerations from less tightly
administered rural areas. Perhaps some of these pura were cities in name
only, to enhance the prestige of locally based elites, but the evidence for
urbanization coincides with other things we know about Suryavarman’s
reign.34
There is also evidence that merchants engaged in local and overseas
trade became more active while Suryavarman was king. Throughout
Cambodian history, the majority of such people appear to have been, in
ethnic terms, outsiders—Chams, Chinese, or Vietnamese—but references
to merchants as a group are more frequent in inscriptions dating from
Suryavarman’s reign. As usual, foreign trade involved the exchange of wild
goods from forested areas for civilized ones, such as cloth or porcelain, but
as Kenneth Hall has shown, commodities such as land, rice, buffalo, and
slaves were also traded by Cambodians at this time for manufactured or
exotic goods from other countries. Interestingly, this economic activity
occurred without any consistent units of value or any official currency, a
fact that persisted well into Cambodia’s middle period.35
The extent to which Suryavarman’s reign mobilized bureaucratic and
coercive talents to concentrate people at Yasodharapura marked a
departure from the past, and the success of his tactics showed subsequent
kings that the kingdom could be organized and expanded by forcing its
cultivators to work throughout the year. The food needed to support the
apparatus (priests, kings, bureaucrats, and armies) could not be supplied by
the single annual harvests that previously had sufficed for ordinary people
to survive.
In extending his power in this way, Suryavarman enjoyed the
advantages of a usurper. He was free to choose and reward his trusted
followers, rather than finding himself hemmed in at the beginning of his
reign by hangers-on from other courts. At first, governing the country
with new officials probably meant that more attention was paid to local
issues, for the new officials would still have debts to their clients in the
countryside that their successors could ignore.
Suryavarman’s successor, Utyadityavarman II (r. 1050–66) was a
devotee of Siva. Guided by a powerful guru, he revived interest in the
devaraja cult and also revived the custom of building a massive templemountain,
the Bapuon, to house the lingam associated with his reign. As
an inscription carved under his successor tells us:
Seeing that in the middle of Jambudvipa, the
home of the gods, there rose up a golden
mountain, he made a golden mountain in the
center of his city, out of emulation. On the
summit of this mountain, in a golden temple,
shining with celestial brilliance, he set up a
Sivalinga made of gold.36
Guardian spirit, Preah Ko, ninth century. Photo by Walter Veit.
ANGKOREAN KINGSHIP
There are three ways of looking at Cambodian kingship in its heyday at
Angkor. One is to study the king’s relationship with Siva. Paul Mus, in a
brilliant essay written in 1933, has argued that Siva’s popularity in classical
Southeast Asia may be traced in large part to his role as a spirit of the earth
and also as an ancestral spirit, emerging from the earth (and thus from the
ancestors) at first “accidentally,  in the form of an outcrop of stone; later,
purposefully, carved into the shape of a lingam representing the ancestors;
and later still, as representing the rulers and ancestors of a particular
place.37 Siva in this sense was a literary form of an ancestor spirit held
responsible for fertilizing the soil by inducing rain to fall on the region
under his jurisdiction. This aspect of Cambodian kingship (found
elsewhere in Southeast Asia, particularly in Vietnam) endured into the
1960s in the countryside. Siva and his consort, Uma, were gods to whom
sacrifices, buffalo or human beings, were addressed because they were
thought of as divinization of what lay under the earth. Intriguingly, when
looked at in this way, the Cambodian king, as a patron of agriculture,
resembles a Chinese emperor far more than a raja of traditional India.
The role of a Cambodian king was not merely to bring rain or to keep
everyone’s ancestors contentedly at bay. A second way of looking at
Cambodian kingship, through the eyes of the people, is to see it in terms
of the king’s repeated and ritual enactment of lordliness and superiority in
battle, sexuality, poetry, possessions, ceremony, and so forth. Seen in this
way, the king was not an earth spirit or a priest but the hero of an Indian
epic. This is the view taken in most of the Sanskrit-language inscriptions
of Cambodia that praised kings as embodiments of virtue, actors living
above society, associated with the sky, the sun, Indra, Vishnu, and Rama
rather than with earthly or ancestral forces. As living superlatives (for each
king was seen as the greatest, rather than one of many), kings provided the
poets with a point of comparison, a kind of polestar from which society,
flowing outward and downward, metaphorically organized itself, first
through the varnas near the king and then on to free people, rice-growing
villagers, and slaves. The king was superhuman without being helpful in
any practical sense. He was a hero, occupying the top of society because of
his merit and his power.
To members of the Angkorean elite, this reenactment of lordliness had
at least two purposes. The first was to present godlike behavior (e.g.,
building a temple-mountain in imitation of Mt. Meru or defeating hordes
of enemies) in order to obtain blessings for the king and the kingdom. The
correct performance of rituals, especially exacting with regard to timing,
was crucial to their efficacy. In this context, the word symbol is rather
empty. The king believed in the rituals. So did his advisers. Ceremonies
were the vehicles through which his lordliness, in which he also believed,
was acted out.
A third way of looking at kingship is in terms of everyday Cambodian
life. Sanskrit inscriptions are far less useful here than the Cambodian ones.
Although society at Angkor, at first glance, appears to have been almost
mechanically organized into strata, the inscriptions point to webs of
relationships, responsibilities and expectations within which everyone who
is mentioned appears to have been entangled. Seen in this way, the king, as
a polygamist, a patron, and a giver of names, was perhaps the most
entangled of them all. Ian Mabbett’s thoughtful study of Angkorean
kingship shows the range of things a king was expected to do, approve, and
know about.38 These included bestowing titles and emblems on his high
officials; granting land and slaves to numerous religious foundations;
constructing and maintaining irrigation works; constructing, decorating,
and staffing temples; and conducting foreign relations, particularly in this
era, with Champa to the east of the capital and with various tributary
states to the north and west. The king was also the court of last appeal,
and the inscriptions tell us how seemingly obscure squabbles involving
landholdings often floated up through the judicial system to reach him—a
feature of kingship that endured into the 1960s.39
At the same time, although the inscriptions tell us little about it, a king
had to be a political operator to survive. As Mabbett has pointed out,
many Sanskrit inscriptions praise the acumen of kings in terms of their
resemblances to Rama or their knowledge of Indian political texts. As
political manuals these learned writings certainly gave Cambodian kings
plenty of room for maneuver, but it is in just this area, the day-to-day
preferments, quarrels, and decisions, that the inscriptions are of so little
help. The flavor of life at court in Angkorean times is inaccessible.
The Khmer inscriptions are of more assistance in telling us about the
other levels of Cambodian society, the free people and the slaves, but again
only at the moments described, recalled, or honored by an inscription.
Mabbett’s study of slavery at Angkor, which builds on earlier ones by Y.
Bongert and A. Chakravarti, shows the bewildering complexity of
categories in use for what we would call slaves and the bewildering number
of tasks that were assigned to them.40 As suggested in Chapter 2, it is still
impossible to sort the terms out either diachronically or across the corpus
of inscriptions. There are cases, for example, of slaves who owned slaves,
slaves who married members of the royal family, and free people who were
disposed of by others, just like slaves. Working back from later periods,
one gets the impression that most of the people at Angkor were subjects
(reas) rather than objects, or free people. They were at the disposition of
patrons, who had the right to sell them to other people and, in many cases,
they disposed of “lower  people themselves. In the inscriptions, slaves are
listed as commodities.
These people were certainly the giants who were once thought to have
built Angkor. Bas-reliefs on the Bayon show us that their tools, clothing,
and houses changed little between Angkorean times and the period of the
French protectorate. The bas-reliefs also depict their domestic animals,
games, and marketing and clowns, shamans, ascetics, and peddlers. We are
on less firm ground, however, when we seek to reconstitute their beliefs or
the stories they told each other. No popular literature can be traced back to
Angkor. This absence of written sources makes it difficult to bring the
ordinary people of Angkor to life, except through the things they made,
the reservoirs, temples, statues of stone and bronze, tools, pottery, and so
on. What did a slave at Angkor think about his master? Was a master to
be imitated, hated, avoided, or revered? How far down into the society or
into a person’s mind—did recognizably Indian ideas, gods, and vocabulary
penetrate? The population was certainly more literate in Khmer than it was
in Sanskrit, but nothing is known about the way literacy in either language
was taught. The picture that emerges is one of familiarity with Indian
culture (and perhaps knowledge of occasional Indian visitors as well)
among the elite, thinning out in the rest of the society, until in the villages,
as in the nineteenth century, we find ancestral spirits given Hindu names
and Hindu statues treated as ancestral gods.
As we have seen, Cambodia’s imitation of India stopped short of
importing the Indian caste system. As Mabbett has shown in another
penetrating essay, however, a set of ritual orders using varna nomenclature
formed part of the king’s repertoire of patronage, for caste standing was
occasionally bestowed by the monarch on his own clients or on the clients
of his associates.41 Except at the beginning of a dynasty, a Cambodian
king, like most Chinese emperors, could rule only by extending networks
of patronage and mutual obligations outward from his palace, at first
through close associates and family members but becoming diffuse, and
more dependent on local power-holders, at the edges of the kingdom.
Villagers far from Angkor would probably seldom have known the king’s
name any more than they did in the early twentieth century, when the
following passage was recorded by French ethnographers working among
the Cambodian population of southern Vietnam:
In former times there were no canals, and no
paths; there were only forests, with tigers,
elephants, and wild buffaloes; no people dared
to leave their villages.
For this reason, hardly anyone ever went to
the royal city. If anyone ever reached it, by
poling his canoe, the others would ask him
about it. “What is the king’s appearance like? Is
he like an ordinary man?  And the traveler,
seeing all these ignorant people asking
questions, would reply: “The king has an
elegant, beautiful appearance, unstained by dust
or sweat; he has no scars. . . .  But of course
often he had never seen the king at all.42
ANGKOR WAT
The last years of the eleventh century in Cambodia were ones of turmoil
and fragmentation. At different times, two or even three monarchs
contended for the title of absolute ruler. At the end of the century,
however, a new dynasty, which was to last for more than a hundred years,
began to rule at Angkor. Little is known about the first two of its kings,
Jayavarman VI and his brother, Dharanindravarman I, but their nephew,
Suryavarman II, under whom Angkor Wat was built, was, like
Yasovarman II and Suryavarman I, another unifying monarch. If his
inscriptions are to be believed, he gained power while still young after
winning a battle against a rival prince: “Leaving the ocean of his army on
the field of combat . . . he bounded to the head of the elephant of the
enemy king, and killed [him] as a garuda on the slope of a mountain might
kill a snake. 43
Suryavarman II was the first king to rule over a unified Cambodian
kingdom since Utyadityavarman II’s death in the 1060s. The parallels with
Suryavarman I, who was probably no relation, are numerous and
instructive. Both kings came to power following periods of fragmentation
and disorder. They responded to this, once Yasodharapura was in their
hands, with vigorous administrative policies, with a pragmatic style of
kingship, and by expanding the territory and manpower under their
control. Suryavarman II campaigned in the east, against Vietnam (perhaps
with encouragement from China) and Champa, using mercenaries drawn
primarily from tributary areas to the west and using Chams in expeditions
against Vietnam. He established diplomatic relations with China—the
first Angkorean king to do so—and during his reign some impressive
temples were built in what is now northeastern Thailand, including Pimai
and Phnom Rung. Like Suryavarman I, he also sought to separate himself
in religious terms from his immediate predecessors. Suryavarman I had
done this by his patronage to Buddhism, whereas his namesake chose to
exhibit a devotion, unusual for a Cambodian king, to Vishnu. In both
cases, innovative or personal policies went along with a legitimizing cluster
of actions, which linked the kings with pre-Angkorean pilgrimage sites
like Wat Ph’u, with gurus associated with previous kings, and with artistic
styles extending back into the reigns of the people they had managed to
overthrow.
Suryavarman II’s devotion to Vishnu led him to commission the
largest, perhaps the most beautiful, and certainly one of the most
mysterious of all the monuments of Angkor—the temple, tomb, and
observatory now known as Angkor Wat.44 The temple covers an area of
two hundred hectares (almost five hundred acres). It was begun at the start
of Suryavarman II’s reign, and it was not completed until after his death,
which occurred in about 1150, i.e., almost a century after the previous
temple-mountain, the Bapuon. There is striking evidence, recently
uncovered, that its central statue of Vishnu, long since vanished, was
dedicated in July 1131, which was probably Suryavarman’s thirty-third
birthday—a number with important cosmic significance in Indian religion.
What is so mysterious about the temple? First, it opens to the west, the
only major building at Yasodharapura to do so. In addition, its bas-reliefs,
more than a mile of them around the outer galleries of the temple, are to
be followed by moving in a counterclockwise direction, starting from the
northwest quarter. The customary way of reading a bas-relief or of walking
around a temple was to keep it all on one’s right by moving in a clockwise
direction, known by the Sanskrit term pradaksina. The reverse direction
was usually associated with the dead; so was the west, for obvious
meteorological reasons. (The word for west in modern Khmer also means
“sink  or “drown. ) Some French scholars have argued, therefore, that
Angkor Wat, unlike the other temples at Angkor, was primarily a tomb.45
The arguments raged in learned journals until 1940, when Coedes
proposed that Angkor Wat, like fifteen other royally sponsored
Cambodian monuments, be thought of as a temple and a tomb. He cited
stone receptacles, perhaps sarcophagi, that held part of the treasure of
these other temples. As for the unusual orientation of Angkor Wat,
Coedes suggested that this may have been in honor of Vishnu,
Suryavarman’s patron-deity, often associated with the west. Angkor Wat is
the only temple at Angkor that we know to have been dedicated to him.
The twelfth century, in fact, saw a vigorous revival of Vaisnavism,
associated with popular religion, on the Indian subcontinent. This revival,
it seems, like earlier ones in Indian religion, had repercussions at Angkor.
Between 1940 and the 1970s, little scholarly work was done on Angkor
Wat. Scholars and tourists were content to marvel at the artistry of its basreliefs
(many of them concerned with the prowess of Rama), the delicate
and yet overwhelming proportions of the temple, and its continued hold
on the imagination of ordinary Cambodians. In the mid-1970s, however,
Eleanor Moron began studying the dimensions of the temple in detail,
convinced that these might contain the key to the way the temple had been
encoded by the learned men who designed it.46 After determining that the
Cambodian measurement used at Angkor, the hat, was equivalent to
approximately 0.4 meters (1.3 feet), Moron went on to ask how many hat
were involved in significant dimensions of the temple, such as the distance
between the western entrance (the only one equipped with its own
causeway) and the central tower. The distance came to 1,728 hat, and three
other components of this axis measured, respectively, 1,296, 867, and 439
hat. Moron then argued that these figures correlated to the four ages, or
yuga, of Indian thought. The first of these, the Krita Yuga, was a
supposedly golden age, lasting 1.728 million years. The next three ages
lasted for 1.296 million, 864,000, and 432,000 years, respectively. The
earliest age, therefore, was four times longer than the latest; the second
earliest, three times longer; and the third earliest, twice as long. The last
age is the Kali Yuga, in which we are living today. At the end of this era, it
is believed, the universe will be destroyed, to be rebuilt by Brahma along
similar lines, beginning with another golden age.
A heavenly angel (thevoda) from an eleventh-century temple,
Thommanon. Author’s photo.
The fact that the length of these four eras correlates exactly with
particular distances along the east-west axis of Angkor Wat suggests that
the code for the temple is in fact a kind of pun that can be read in terms of
time and space. The distances that a person entering the temple will
traverse coincide with the eras that the visitor is metaphorically living
through en route to the statue of Vishnu that was housed in the central
tower. Walking forward and away from the west, which is the direction of
death, the visitor moves backward into time, approaching the moment
when the Indians proposed that time began.
In her research, Moron also discovered astronomical correlations for
ten of the most frequently recurring distances at Angkor Wat.
Astronomers working with her found that the siting of the temple was
related to the fact that its western gate aligned at sunrise with a small hill
to the northeast, Phnom Bok. Moreover, at the summer solstice “an
observer . . . standing just in front of the western entrance can see the
sunrise directly over the central tower of Angkor Wat. 47 This day, June
21, marked the beginning of the solar year for Indian astronomers and was
sacred to a king whose name, Suryavarman, means “protected by the sun 
and who was a devotee of Vishnu.
The close fit of these spatial relationships to notions of cosmic time,
and the extraordinary accuracy and symmetry of all the measurements at
Angkor, combine to confirm the notion that the temple was in fact a
coded religious text that could be read by experts moving along its
walkways from one dimension to the next. The learned people that
determined the dimensions of Angkor Wat would have been aware of and
would have reveled in its multiplicity of meanings. To those lower down in
the society, perhaps, fewer meanings would be clear. We can assume,
however, that even the poorest slaves were astounded and pleased to see
this enormous temple, probably with gilded towers rising sixty meters (two
hundred feet) above the ground, above its glittering moat and above the
thatched huts of the people who had built it.
Although Suryavarman II may have led a campaign against Vietnam as
late as 1150, the date of his death is unknown. In fact, the period 1145–82
produced almost no inscriptions, and its history must be recreated from
later sources. Suryavarman’s successor, perhaps a cousin, reached the
throne under mysterious circumstances, probably in a coup d’état. This
new king, Dharanindravarman, appears to have been a fervent Buddhist,
although there is a possibility that he never reined as king at
Yasodharapura. Around 1150, Yasovarman II, whose reign is mentioned
in one of Jayavarman VII’s inscriptions, succeeded him. In the inscription,
Yasovarman is given credit for putting down a mysterious revolt in the
northwest. The people who led this revolt, according to the inscription,
were neither foreigners nor members of the elite; in bas-reliefs at the
temple of Banteay Chhmar, they are depicted as people with animal
heads.48 Perhaps the revolt, like the Communist insurgency in the 1970s,
was a supposedly unthinkable one, organized by the downtrodden
segments of the society and by “forest people  against an allegedly
unassailable elite.49
Instability continued in the 1160s. Yasovarman was assassinated by one
of his subordinates, who then declared himself to be king. At this time
also, the tributary state of Louvo sent tributary missions to China,
suggesting at least partial independence from Angkor. The absence of
inscriptions and the questionable legitimacy of rulers reinforce the
impression of rapid change.
Angkor Wat, twelfth-century temple dedicated to Vishnu. The largest
religious building in the world, its image has appeared on five successive
Cambodian flags since 1953. Photo by Roger M. Smith.
Perhaps, as B.P. Groslier has suggested, the hydraulic organization of
the kingdom had already begun to falter during the reign of Suryavarman
II.50 This system of reservoirs and canals, which guaranteed one harvest a
year in dry times and two with adequate rainfall, was the basis of Angkor’s
rice-oriented agricultural economy and allowed the low-density
concentration of large populations—perhaps as many as six hundred
thousand.51 Groslier has suggested that the system reached peak efficiency
in the mid-eleventh century, as the hydraulic components of Angkor Wat
a hundred years later were much smaller than those around earlier templemountains.
Indeed, Groslier goes on, under Suryavarman II, for the first
time in Cambodian history, hydraulically based cities were built at
considerable distances from Angkor, at Beng Mealea and Kompong Svay.
Perhaps this was done because the water resources in the Angkor region,
which had lasted so long, had now been tapped to the limit although it is
more likely, as recent research as revealed, that this peak was reached in
the thirteenth century. Water came from a network of small streams,
running south from the Kulen hills to the north along the slight slope that
extended to the shores of the Tonle Sap. As demands for water increased,
these streams were diverted closer and closer to their sources. This process
reduced the nutrients that the streams brought to fertilize the Angkorean
plain.
Because the slope of the plain is so slight, in dry periods the canals
would probably have been nearly stagnant, especially if unstable political
conditions, warfare, or epidemics had drawn off the labor normally used to
maintain them. Groslier has suggested, as other scholars have done, that
this increasing stagnation may well have coincided with the appearance of
malaria on the Southeast Asian mainland, accelerating the process.52 Here,
as so often, we lack generalized statements about conditions at Angkor or
any reliable statistics that might tell us about the size and composition of
the population at a given time, the condition of the hydraulic network at
particular times, and the relationship, or lack of it, between particular
kings and productive agricultural life.
The close relationships among water management, grain production,
priesthood, and temple foundations that characterized Angkor somewhat
resembles the social organization of ancient Egypt and is similar also in
some respects to the Maya civilization of medieval Guatemala.53 In all
three cases, grain surpluses (of wheat, rice, or maize) were collected for the
benefit of the state and its prevailing ideologues, the priests, who served as
patrons of temples and advisers to the kings. Rice and other products
produced by temple foundations formed the basis of the Angkorean
economy, buttressed by whatever could be earned from trading forest
products and minerals to other states. As Michael Coe has written, “There
seem to have been taxes on everything—on land, on rice, salt, wax and
honey. . . . Payments could be made in all kinds of goods, including . . .
slaves, buffaloes, elephants and especially cloth. 54 The economy of
Angkor is a promising field of research. Scholars concerned with the
economy can build on Vickery’s work on the preceding period, as well as
on information gleaned by the ongoing Greater Angkor project, centered
at the University of Sydney.55
4
JAYAVARMAN VII AND THE CRISIS
OF THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY
From the time of Suryavarman II’s death around 1150 until Jayavarman
VII’s coronation in 1182, only one dated Cambodian inscription has
survived. Much of what we know about this period must be filtered
through inscriptions carved at Jayavarman’s behest, reflecting his view of
the world as well as what he wanted people to believe about his early life.
Because he was not, apparently, an entirely legitimate contender for the
throne, his early years, like those of so many Cambodian founder-kings,
are poorly documented.
Jayavarman’s biography was pieced together by George Coedes, who
saw him as a pinnacle of Cambodian history rather than as an aberration.1
Jayavarman’s inscriptions and what they tell us about his point of view
make radical departures, in many ways, from what had gone before.
Because of his radicalism and grandeur, Jayavarman VII has tended to
dominate the historiography of Cambodia, particularly since Coedes’s
work in the 1930s. His reign, as we shall see, contained several mysteries
and contradictions. Recent scholars have called Coedes’s hagiography into
question.
Jayavarman belonged to the so-called Mahiharapura dynasty. He
appears to have been a first cousin of Suryavarman II and the son of a royal
prince, Dharanindravarman, who may have reigned briefly as king and
who was certainly a fervent Buddhist. B.P. Groslier has cast doubts on the
first of these assertions because it is so poorly documented and because it
places Jayavarman in the direct line of succession in a way that makes the
facts we know about his life even more difficult to understand.2
It seems likely, all the same, that Jayavarman as a young man served in
some capacity at Yasovarman’s court. From 1166 to 1177, Jayavarman
appears to have lived away from Angkor, perhaps in the vicinity of the
temple now known as the Preah Khan in Kompong Svay, where Claude
Jacques has located the city of Jayadityapura, and also in Champa. A
portrait statue of him, manifestly earlier than others produced later in his
reign, has been found at Preah Khan in Kompong Svay.3 Was the city
subservient to Angkor or a rival to it? How did Jayavarman relate to the
usurper-king who followed Yasovarman to the throne? Even more
important, what were his relationships with Champa to the east? We need
to ask these partially unanswerable questions in order to place Jayavarman’s
reign, following his accession in 1178, in the context of his early life and in
the framework of Cambodian foreign relations.
JAYAVARMAN VII AND BUDDHIST KINGSHIP
Throughout his life, it seems, Jayavarman immersed himself in the
teachings of Mahayana Buddhism—the variant still followed in much of
northern Asia. More than any other king, he labored to integrate Buddhist
with Cambodian ideas of kingship. Buddhist kingship, as he practiced it,
differed in several ways from the more eclectic Hindu model that had been
followed for centuries at Angkor and was to form the ceremonial basis of
Cambodian kingship until the institution was temporarily overturned in
1970. In the traditional version, a king was thought to enjoy, whether he
was alive or not, a special relationship with a particular deity—usually Siva,
more rarely Vishnu, occasionally the composite of them both known as
Harihara—to whom his temple-mountain was eventually dedicated. The
kings used this special relationship to explain their grandeur while their
subjects assumed that the relationship had something to do with the
provision of adequate rainfall.
A tower at the Bayon, Jayavarman VII’s temple-mountain, twelfth
century CE. Photo by Walter Veit.
Because Cambodian society was organized hierarchically, and because
the king was thought to centralize the kingdom, most Cambodians, like
their contemporaries in medieval Europe, probably recognized the
necessity for a king. Rare inscriptions, and perhaps the act of constructing
reservoirs, indicated that an individual king occasionally had his subjects’
general welfare on his mind. In human terms, however, the king was
nearly always a distant, mysterious figure concealed inside an awesome
palace. The notion that he was accountable to his people does not seem to
have caught on. Inside his palace, and within the network of kinship and
preferment relationships extending from it, the king was the master and
the victim of a system whereby people clamored for his favors, for titles, for
the right to own slaves or sumptuous possessions.
Buddhist kingship, of course, grew out of this Indian tradition (the
Buddha had been an Indian prince), but in Jayavarman’s reign these
notions were modified in several ways. Jayavarman was no longer seen as
the devotee of a divinity or as drawn up to the divinity in death. Instead,
Jayavarman sought to redeem himself and his kingdom by his devotion to
Buddhist teachings and by the performance of meritorious acts.4
Before examining how these ideas of kingship were acted out during
his reign, we need to stress that his program was not aimed at reforming
Cambodian society or at dismantling such Hinduized institutions as
Brahmanism, slavery, and kingship. Far from it. In his conservatism, his
ongoing tolerance of Hinduism, and his elitist frame of reference,
Jayavarman VII was a recognizably twelfth-century king, although in
Cambodian terms he was also perhaps a revolutionary one.
Put very starkly, the difference between a Hindu king and a Buddhist
one is akin to the difference between a monologue that no one overhears
and a soliloquy addressed to an audience of paid or invited guests. A
Hindu king’s rule was an aggregation of statements—rituals, temples,
poems, marriages, inscriptions, and the like—that displayed his grandeur,
acumen, and godliness. A Buddhist king made similar statements, but he
addressed many of them, specifically, to an audience of his people. This
made the people less an ingredient of the king’s magnificence (as his
thousands of followers had always been) than objects of his compassion, an
audience for his merit-making and participants in his redemption. This, at
least, is what many of Jayavarman VII’s inscriptions and temples appear to
have been saying.
Why did Jayavarman VII choose to break with the past? Scholars have
several explanations. These include his apparent estrangement from the
court at Angkor, combined with his resentment toward the usurper who
had proclaimed himself king in 1167; and his having a “master plan  of
buildings, ideology, and kingship that had been maturing in his mind after
years of study and very possibly the influence of a scholarly, ambitious
wife. These proposals are helpful, but they do not identify the real key to
Jayavarman’s reign—the Cham invasion of Angkor in 1177. Paul Mus and
Jean Boisselier have argued that we can see Jayavarman’s entire reign as a
response to this traumatic event.5
Jayavarman’s own links with Champa were close, and in the 1160s, he
may have spent several years there. It’s likely that his absence from Angkor
was connected in some way with his being out of favor at the Cambodian
court, for he returned home only after Yasovarman II had been deposed.
As the sources of our uncertainty are Jayavarman’s own inscriptions, all
that is clear about the prelude to the Cham invasion of 1177—and indeed
about Jayavarman’s early career—is that later on he found little to boast
about in these obviously formative years, some of which he may have spent
in his mother’s home city of Jayadityapura, east of Angkor.6
Because inscriptions tend to trace the causes of war to royal ambition,
treachery, and revenge—that is, to the world of the Ramayana—it is
difficult for us to determine exactly why Champa invaded Cambodia, by
land certainly in 1177 and perhaps by water in 1178.7 The prospects of
booty and prisoners were certainly part of the Cham rationale; so were
memories of earlier defeats. The expedition traveled to the Great Lake,
and the Siem Reap River, taking the city of Yasodharapura by surprise:
“With a powerful fleet, he pillaged it and put the king to death, without
listening to any proposal of peace. 8
Jayavarman appears to have been in Champa at the time of the 1177
invasion. In the following year he assembled a mixed Khmer-Cham army
of supporters for a new campaign against the Chams at Angkor, defeating
them in battle, although an inscription suggests that it was a Cambodian
prince, not Jayavarman himself, who killed the Cham king “with a
hundred million arrows.  When Jayavarman arrived at Angkor after the
invasion, he found the city “plunged into a sea of misfortune  and “heavy
with crimes.  Some of these troubles could be traced in his mind to the
unmeritorious reigns of predecessors; others to the fractionalization of
power inside the kingdom, referred to in an inscription written by his wife:
“In the previous reign, the land, though shaded by many parasols, suffered
from extremes of heat; under [Jayavarman] there remained but one parasol,
and yet the land, remarkably, was delivered from suffering. 9
Jayavarman VII was crowned in 1182–83, therefore, owing little to his
predecessors and much, as his inscriptions tell us, to his acumen, his
Buddhist faith, and his victories in battle. It’s clear, however, that the
period between victory and assuming power must have been filled with
political negotiations and further conflicts—with the “many parasols, 
perhaps. Over the next thirty years or so (the precise date of his death is
unknown), he stamped the kingdom with his personality and his ideas as
no other ruler was able to do before Norodom Sihanouk in the 1960s and
Pol Pot later on. Like these two figures, Jayavarman may have wanted to
transform Cambodia and perceived himself as the instrument of that
transformation.
Much of the interest in his reign springs from the tension inherent in
the words Buddha and king. Using the Hinduized apparatus of kingship
and the material grandeur associated with it, Jayavarman also sought in all
humility, if his inscriptions are to be believed, to deliver himself and all his
people from suffering. As a king he had roads built throughout his
kingdom, perhaps to accelerate his military response to uprisings or
invasions but also to facilitate access to areas rich in resources that could be
exported to China via the Cham seaports that were now subservient to
Angkor. This nationalization of kingship by a man who was arguably the
most otherworldly of Cambodia’s kings has given Jayavarman’s reign a
contradictory appearance. Sentences about the man soon fall into the
pattern of “on the one hand  and “on the other. 
For example, many of the bas-reliefs on the Bayon, depicting battles
against the Chams, contain vivid scenes of cruelty. Similarly, some of
Jayavarman’s inscriptions praise his vengefulness and his skill at political
infighting vis-à-vis the Chams. On the one hand, the portrait statues of
him that have come down to us depict him as an ascetic deep in
meditation.10 From his so-called hospital inscriptions we learn that “he
suffered from the illnesses of his subjects more than from his own; the pain
that afflicted men’s bodies was for him a spiritual pain, and thus more
piercing. 11 Yet, on the other hand, his roads, temples, “houses of fire, 
reservoirs, and hospitals were thrown up with extraordinary haste between
his coronation in 1182–83 and the second decade of the thirteenth
century; some were completed after his death. There were so many of
these projects, in fact, that workmanship was often sloppy, and by the end
of his reign local supplies of sandstone and limestone for use at Angkor
may have begun to run out.12 Hundreds of thousands of ordinary people,
inscriptions tell us, labored to erect and maintain these constructions built,
at the ideological level, to deliver them from pain. To a twenty-firstcentury
eye, this seems ironic, but we should remember that suffering in
Buddhist terms should not be taken merely in a physical sense; it must also
be related to the purposes of life and to the ways that suffering of certain
kinds can serve the teachings of the Buddha.
Why was Jayavarman’s building program carried out with so much
haste? He was perhaps as old as sixty when he reached the throne; the
buildings may have constituted a race against time. The program may have
been part of a process of personal redemption, although the sins for which
he was atoning are not clarified by his inscriptions. What we know about
the first years of his reign comes from inscriptions written at a later stage.
These years were probably spent in deflecting yet another Cham attack, in
quelling a rebellion in the northwest, and in reconstituting Yasodharapura
for the first time as a walled city. Major shifts in population, as usual,
followed these military campaigns, as the Preah Khan inscription of 1191
suggests: “To the multitude of his warriors, he gave the capitals of enemy
kings, with their shining palaces; to the beasts roaming his forests, he gave
the forests of the enemy; to prisoners of war, he gave his own forests, thus
manifesting generosity and justice. 
As it would be with other Cambodian kings, making a sharp
distinction between Jayavarman’s politics and his religion, between
temporal and spiritual powers, and between his ideas about himself and his
ideas about his kingdom would be wrong. Before we dismiss him as a
megalomaniac, however, it is worth recalling that had no one shared his
vision or believed in his merit, he would never have become king,
especially starting out from such a weak position, and he certainly would
not have been able to remain in power. Many high officials, brahmans,
evangelical Buddhists, and military men probably saw advantages in the
physical expansion of the kingdom, partly by means of royally subsidized
religious foundations and partly through bringing previously hostile or
indifferent populations under some form of control. By the beginning of
the thirteenth century, in fact, Angkor was extracting tribute from much of
what is now Thailand and southern Laos as well as from Champa,
occupying the coastal areas of central Vietnam. To these corners of the
known world the multiple half-smiling faces of Jayavarman’s templemountain
and his portrait statues addressed their benignly powerful glance.
At the same time, as Michael Vickery and others have suggested,
considerable resentment must have built up against Jayavarman VII in the
course of his reign among disaffected members of the elite, and among
formerly privileged Hindu practitioners who resented the king’s
conversion. These elements of Khmer society, at the instigation of a later
monarch (but which one?), probably were responsible for the anti-
Buddhist iconoclasm that affected many of Jayavarman’s major temples
after his death.13
The art historian Philippe Stern, who studied Jayavarman’s reign in
detail, perceived three stages in the development of his iconography and
architecture.14 These coincide with the three phases of construction that
Stern had noted for earlier Cambodian kings—namely, public works,
temples in honor of parents, and the king’s own temple-mountain.
The public works of earlier kings, as we have seen, usually took the
form of reservoirs (baray). Other projects such as roads and bridges were
also built, but they are seldom noted in inscriptions. But Jayavarman’s
program departed from the past. His hospitals, probably established early
in his reign, were an important innovation, described in the stele of Ta
Prohm. Four of them were located near the gateways to Angkor Thom.
Others were built to the west of Angkor into what is now northeastern
Thailand and as far north as central Laos. About twenty hospital sites have
so far been identified. The Ta Prohm inscription says that the hospitals
could call on the services of 838 villages, with adult populations totaling
roughly eighty thousand people. The services demanded appear to have
been to provide labor and rice for the staffs attached to each hospital, or
approximately a hundred people, including dependents.15 The hospital
steles give details about the administration of the hospitals and about the
provisions and staff allocated to them.
A second set of Jayavarman VII’s public works consisted of “houses of
fire  placed at approximately sixteen-kilometer (ten-mile) intervals along
Cambodia’s major roads. There were fifty-seven of these between Angkor
and the Cham capital and seventeen more between Angkor and a
Buddhist temple-site at P’imai in northeastern Thailand. The exact
purpose of these buildings is unknown.16
Finally, there was Jayavarman’s own reservoir, known now as the
northern Baray and during his reign as the Jayatataka, located to the
northeast of Yasodharapura.
These innovations stemmed from what Jayavarman saw as his mission
to rescue his subjects, as the hospital inscription says:
Filled with a deep sympathy for the good of the
world, the king swore this oath: “All the beings
who are plunged in the ocean of existence, may
I draw them out by virtue of this good work.
And may the kings of Cambodia who come
after me, attached to goodness . . . attain with
their wives, dignitaries, and friends the place of
deliverance where there is no more illness. 17
THE TEMPLES OF JAYAVARMAN VII
In the second stage of Jayavarman’s reign he erected temples in honor of
his parents. The first of these, now known as Ta Prohm (“Ancestor
Brahma ), was dedicated in 1186. It honored Jayavarman’s mother in the
guise of Prajnaparamita, the goddess of wisdom, conceived metaphorically
as the mother of all Buddhas. The temple also housed a portrait statue of
Jayavarman’s Buddhist teacher, or guru (the word kru means “teacher  in
modern Khmer), surrounded in the temple by statues of more than six
hundred dependent gods and bodhisattvas. The syncretism of Cambodian
religion is shown by the fact that Shaivite and Vaisnavite ascetics were
given cells on the temple grounds alongside Buddhist monks and learned
men. The appearance of Ta Prohm today gives a poor idea of its original
appearance, for unlike the other major temples at Angkor, it has never
been restored; instead, it has been left to the mercy of the forest.
The next temple complex to be built by Jayavarman VII is known
nowadays as the Preah Khan (“Sacred Sword ). Its inscription says that it
was built on the site of an important Cambodian victory over the Chams,
and its twelfth-century name, Jayasri (“Victory and Throne ), may echo
this event. No other inscription mentions this battle, fought so close to
Yasodharapura as to suggest a second Cham invasion of the city. Groslier,
however, has argued that it took place and has proposed that it is depicted
in bas-reliefs at the Bayon.18
Preah Khan was dedicated in 1191 and houses a portrait statue of
Jayavarman’s father, Dharanindravarman, with the traits of Lokesvara, the
deity expressive of the compassionate aspects of the Buddha. The
symbolism is relentlessly appropriate, for in Mahayana Buddhist thinking
the marriage of wisdom (prajna) and compassion (karuna) gave birth to
enlightenment, which is to say, to the Buddha himself, the Enlightened
One.19 In this stage of Jayavarman’s artistic development, Lokesvara
appears more and more frequently, and throughout his reign, the triad of
Prajnaparamita (wisdom), the Buddha (enlightenment), and Lokesvara
(compassion) was central to the king’s religious thinking. The placement
of the two temples southeast and northeast of the new center of
Yasodharapura (later occupied by the Bayon) suggests that the three
temples can be “read  together, with the dialectic of compassion and
wisdom giving birth to enlightenment represented by the Buddha image
that stood at the center of the Bayon, and thus at the heart of Jayavarman’s
temple-mountain.
The inscriptions from these two “parent temples  show us how highly
developed the Cambodian bureaucracy had become, particularly in terms
of its control over the placement and duties of the population, but also in
terms of the sheer number of people in positions of authority who were
entitled to deposit and endow images of deities inside the temple. Ta
Prohm housed several thousand people, as its inscription attests:
A twelfth-century bas-relief at the Bayon depicting warfare between
Chams and Khmer. Photo by Walter Veit.
There are here 400 men, 18 high priests, 2,740
other priests, 2,232 assistants, including 615
female dancers, a grand total of 12,640 people,
including those entitled to stay. In addition,
there are 66,625 men and women who perform
services for the gods, making a grand total of
79,265 people, including the Burmese, Chams,
etc.20
Similarly, the people dependent on Preah Khan—that is, those obliged to
provide rice and other services—totaled nearly 100,000, drawn from more
than 5,300 villages. The inscription goes on to enumerate the men and
women who had been dependent on previous temple endowments. Drawn
from 13,500 villages, they numbered more than 300,000. The
infrastructure needed to provide food and clothing for the temples—to
name only two types of provision—must have been efficient and
sophisticated.
Three interesting points emerge from the inscriptions. One is that
outsiders—“Burmese, Chams, etc. —were accounted for in different ways
than local people were, perhaps because they were prisoners of war without
enduring ties to individual noblemen, priests, or religious foundations.
Another is that the average size of the villages referred to in the
inscriptions appears to have been about two hundred people, including
dependents—still the median size of rice-growing villages in Cambodia in
the 1960s. Finally, the inscriptions indicate that the temples, although
dedicated to the Buddha and serving as residences for thousands of
Buddhist monks, also housed statues and holy men associated with
different Hindu sects. Jayavarman VII obviously approved of this
arrangement, for we know that he also retained Hindu thinkers and
bureaucrats at his court. Indeed, it is probably more useful to speak of the
coexistence of Hinduism and Buddhism in Jayavarman VII’s temples, and
perhaps in his mind as well, than to propose a systematic process of
syncretization.
The jewel-like temple known as Neak Po’n (“Twining Serpents ) once
formed an island in the Jayatataka and was probably completed by 1191,
for it is mentioned in the inscription of Preah Khan:
The king has placed the Jayatataka like a lucky
mirror, colored by stones, gold, and garlands. In
the middle, there is an island, drawing its charm
from separate basins, washing the mud of sin
from those coming in contact with it, serving as
a boat in which they can cross the ocean of
existences.21
The island with its enclosing wall, constructed in a lotus pattern,
represented a mythical lake in the Himalayas, sacred to Buddhist thinking.
Around the temple, as at the lake, four gargoyles spew water from the
larger lake into the smaller ones. The temple itself, raised above the water
by a series of steps, was probably dedicated, like Preah Khan, to Lokesvara,
whose image appears repeatedly in high relief on its walls.
Groups of statues were also placed at the four sides of the temple.
Unfortunately, only one of these, representing the horse Balaha, an aspect
of Lokesvara, can be identified with certainty; two others are probably
representations of Siva and Vishnu. Jean Boisselier has argued that the
presence of these gods inside the enclosure can be read as a political
statement, showing that the former gods of Angkor were now submitting
to the Buddha. But why should they do so? Boisselier, following Mus, has
suggested that Shaivism and Vaisnavism were seen to have failed the
Cambodians when the Chams were able to capture and occupy Angkor in
1177. Lake Anavatapta, moreover, was sacred not only to all Buddhists but
particularly to Buddhist rulers, or chakravartin, beginning, legend asserts,
with the Emperor Asoka, who was able magically to draw water from the
lake to enhance his own purity and power.22
In this second phase of his iconography, Jayavarman VII may also have
sponsored additions to many earlier structures—notably the temples of
P’imai in northeastern Thailand and Preah Khan in Kompong Svay.23
The sheer size of these foundations suggests a trend toward
urbanization under Jayavarman VII, or at least a tendency to herd and
collect large numbers of people from peripheral areas into the service of the
state. It seems likely that Jayavarman VII, like Suryavarman II before him,
was attracted to the idea of increasing centralization and the related idea of
bureaucratic state control. Perhaps these ideas formed part of what he
perceived as a mission to convert his subjects to Buddhism or were
connected with organizing people to respond swiftly to foreign threats.
The second phase was marked by several stylistic innovations. These
included the motif of multifaced towers inaugurated at the small temple of
Prasat Preah Stung and carried to its apex in the entrance gates to the city
of Angkor Thom and, ultimately, in the hundreds of faces that look down
from the Bayon, the stone walls surrounding the entire city, apparently for
the first time in Angkorean history, and the causeways of giants outside
the gates of the city.
These constructions can be read in terms of both politics and religion.
Boisselier, following Mus, has compared the wall-building at Angkor
Thom to a fortified Maginot Line, supposedly offering an impenetrable
defense against any Cham invasion. At the same time, the walls can be
said to represent the ring of mountains that surround Mt. Meru or
Jayavarman’s temple-mountain, the Bayon.
After capturing the Cham capital in 1191, Jayavarman probably spent
the rest of his reign at Yasodharapura. At this point, his buildings began to
show signs of hasty construction and poor workmanship, as well as of a
shifting ideology. The temple that was to become the Bayon, for example,
was radically altered at several points in the 1190s and probably in the
thirteenth century as well. 24
An inscription from the end of Jayavarman’s reign describes the city as
his bride: “The town of Yasodharapura, decorated with powder and jewels,
burning with desire, the daughter of a good family . . . was married by the
king in the course of a festival that lacked nothing, under the spreading
dais of his protection. 25 The object of the marriage, the inscription goes
on to say, was “the procreation of happiness throughout the universe. 
At the center of the city was the Bayon, a common folk-title for
Angkorean monuments in the nineteenth century, when they were being
named by the French,26 with its hundreds of gigantic faces, carved in sets
of four, and its captivating bas-reliefs depicting everyday life, wars with
Champa, and the behavior of Indian gods. The temple at one time housed
thousands of images. Its central image, discovered in the 1930s, was a
statue of the Buddha sheltered by an enormous hooded snake, or naga.
The statue had been forcibly removed from its honored position by
iconoclasts, probably after Jayavarman VII’s death, and had been thrown
into an airshaft.
There has been considerable controversy about the symbolism of the
temple and about what was meant by the causeways leading up to it, with
giants (asura) and angels (devata) engaged in what looks like a tug of war,
grasping the bodies of two gigantic snakes. Some have argued that the
causeways represented the well-known Indian myth of the churning of the
sea of milk. Others have agreed with Mus, who saw them as rainbows,
leading people out of their world into the world of the gods. At another
level, the asuras represented the Chams and the devatas, Cambodians. In
this respect, it is tempting to perceive the city, and most of Jayavarman’s
works, in dialectical terms. For example, as we have seen, the pair of
Lokesvara (compassion/father) and Prajnaparamita (intelligence/mother)
give birth to the Buddha (enlightenment, thought to be the child of
wisdom and compassion), i.e., Jayavarman VII himself. We have
encountered this turn of mind before, in the cult of Harihara and in the
opposition and synthesis in Cambodian popular thought of divinities
associated respectively with water/moon/darkness and
earth/sun/brightness. Similarly, the struggle between the Cambodians and
the Chams, acted out along the causeways and in the bas-reliefs at the
Bayon and at Banteay Chhmar, can be seen as bringing to birth the new,
converted nation of Cambodia, in which the Buddha has won over the
Hindu gods of Champa. This dialectic may well be the “message  of the
Bayon, which Boisselier has called the “assembly hall of the city of the
gods  because of the great number of images that had been sheltered
there.27 Once again, the message can also be read in terms of the civil
polity, and so can the half-smiling faces that dominate the temple. As so
often in Angkorean art, it would be narrow and inaccurate to interpret
these haunting faces as representing only one kind of deity, performing
one kind of task. In a way, for example, they serve as guardians of the
Buddha and his teachings; in another, glancing out in the four directions,
they oversee the kingdom and perhaps represent civil and military officials
of the time. Boisselier, who has argued that they are princely
manifestations of Brahma, has noticed also that their tiaras resemble those
worn by the Cham asuras along the entrance causeways. None of the
identifications so far has been completely persuasive.28
Another extraordinary feature of the Bayon, found also at Banteai
Chhmar, is that its bas-reliefs depict historical Cambodian events rather
than, say, incidents in the Ramayana or some other literary work that
coincide with or resemble historical events.29 Battles depicted on the
Bayon and at Banteay Chhmar are fought with recognizable twelfthcentury
weapons, and other panels depict ordinary people buying and
selling, eating, gambling, raising children, picking fruit, curing the sick,
and traveling on foot or in ox-carts. Nearly all the customs, artifacts, and
costumes depicted in the bas-reliefs could still be found in the Cambodian
countryside at the end of the colonial era. Although the voices of these
people are missing from Jayavarman’s inscriptions, they move across his
bas-reliefs with unaccustomed freedom, citizens at last of the country they
inhabit, adorning a king’s temple as they never had before.
Unless more inscriptions come to light from Jayavarman’s reign, he will
remain mysterious to us, because there are so many ambiguities about his
personality, his reign, and his ideas. The mystery springs in part from the
wide-ranging social and ideological changes that characterized thirteenthand
fourteenth-century Cambodia and may have been due in part to forces
that Jayavarman or people near him set in motion.
Another source of ambiguity can be traced to the uneasy coexistence in
Jayavarman’s temples and inscriptions of an overwhelming compassion and
an overwhelming will, of a detachment from things of the world—
symbolized by the horse Balaha at the Neak Po’n—and a detailed program
aimed at transforming the physical world of Angkor, which had been
degraded, in Jayavarman VII’s eyes by the Cham invasion. A third mystery
is the silence, both in terms of buildings and inscriptions, that followed
Jayavarman’s reign and appears to have begun in his declining years. We
have no way of telling if Jayavarman was in some sense to blame for this
unusual silence, as in subsequent inscriptions he is hardly ever mentioned.
The patterns of continuity, stressed so often in earlier inscriptions, seem to
have been broken or damaged severely by his reign.
THERAVADA BUDDHISM AND THE CRISIS
OF THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY
The largest change affecting Cambodia in the thirteenth century was the
conversion of most of its people to the Theravada variant of Buddhism,
discussed below.30 What role Jayavarman VII played in this conversion or
what his response to it may have been is impossible to judge. The history
of his reign, from a personal perspective, seems to be the story of the
imposition of one man’s will on a population, a landscape, and a part of
Asia ostensibly in the service of an ideal, Mahayana Buddhism. In its
allegedly “liberating  fashion, it bears a fortuitous resemblance to the
ideology of Democratic Kampuchea, which was also imposed from above.
It is very doubtful that Jayavarman VII saw the Cambodian elite as his
class enemies, as Pol Pot did, or that he preferred “forest people  to those
living in Yasodharapura, but his selective break with the past, his wars with
neighbors, the grandeur of his building program, and what appears to be
his imposition of a new religion all have parallels with the 1970s.
Interestingly, the only feature of Angkorean life singled out for praise by
Democratic Kampuchea was precisely the full-scale mobilization of the
people that Jayavarman VII, but very few other kings, managed to carry
out.
Some writers have connected Cambodia’s conversion to Theravada
Buddhism to the upheaval that affected Southeast Asia in the wake of the
Mongol invasions of China; others have seen it as evidence of the growing
influence of Mon- and Thai-speaking peoples, who were already
Theravada Buddhists, on the people of Angkor. We know that wandering
missionaries from the Mon-language parts of Siam, from Burma, and from
Ceylon (present-day Sri Lanka) played an important part in the process
and that Cambodian pilgrims visited Ceylon to learn about Theravada
Buddhism and to obtain clerical credentials. We also know some of the
agents of the change, but it is difficult to say why conversion was so rapid
and so widespread. Some scholars argue that the Theravada variant, unlike
Brahmanism or Mahayana Buddhism, was oriented toward ordinary
people. A more likely explanation, advanced by L.P. Briggs,31 is that the
increasing interaction between Khmer- and Mon-speaking residents of the
Thai central plain, with the Mons being devotees of Theravada Buddhism,
led gradually, over a half century or so, to the conversion of Khmer
speakers farther east. We have no way of telling what aspects of the sect
were more attractive than others, or which segments of society were drawn
most rapidly to it. The conversion in any case was by no means total, for
the Chinese envoy Zhou Daguan, who visited Angkor in 1296–97, noted
that Brahmanism and Shaivism, as well as Theravada Buddhism, still
enjoyed the status of approved religions.32
In other words, it is likely that the thirteenth century, one of the leastrecorded
of the Angkorean centuries in terms of datable inscriptions, was
marked at Angkor by a serious religious upheaval or by a succession of
upheavals, which had political causes and effects as well.
The end of Jayavarman VII’s reign and the reign of his successor,
Indravarman II (r. 1200–70), are obscure, although we know that
Indravarman, like Jayavarman VII, was a Buddhist who may have extended
some of his predecessors’ works. Inscriptions found at the Bayon have little
to say about the last phase of Jayavarman’s life. Those at the four corners of
his city, apparently all inscribed at the time of his death; however, provide
helpful references to Jayavarman’s wars against the Chams and the
Vietnamese. These inscriptions are written, Coedes contended, in
execrable Sanskrit. Several of them (like some of the bas-reliefs at the
Bayon) are unfinished, almost as if the workmen had dropped their chisels
on receiving news of the king’s death.33
Surveying the art of the post-Angkorean era from another perspective,
Ashley Thompson has written:
The wild iconographic mingling of the
vegetable, animal and human that announces
the divine above each sanctuary threshold is
gone. Images of fantastic creatures and powerful
gods no longer populate the landscape. . . . The
sensuality and majesty of the divine virtually
disappear.34
This dearth of written information coincides with a critical period of
Cambodian and Southeast Asian history. The thirteenth century was a
period of crisis throughout the region—a time of rapid change, significant
movements of population, foreign invasions, altered patterns of trade, the
appearance of new religions, and shifts in the balance of power.35 On the
mainland a major change was the spread of Theravada Buddhism at the
expense of state-sponsored and caste-enhancing Hindu cults. In the long
run this change had several ramifications. In Cambodia and Thailand,
brahmans retained their ceremonial positions at court but otherwise were
diminished in importance. The rich mythical and literary bases of Indian
literature and iconography, reflected up to now in bas-reliefs, sculpture,
architecture, and inscriptions, narrowed perceptibly to satisfy the more
austere requirements of Theravada aesthetics and Cambodian literature,
like the local version of the Ramayana, came to be suffused with Buddhist
values.
In terms of foreign relations, the two most important developments
affecting Cambodia at this time were the weakening of its control over
populations in present-day Thailand and the expansion of Chinese
commercial activities in Southeast Asia under the Mongols and the early
Ming. Although Cambodian cultural influence remained strong in the
central plain (where the Thai capital of Ayudhya was to be founded in the
fourteenth century), Cambodian political control over the rest of the
region diminished. Principalities that formerly sent tribute to Angkor,
such as Sukot’ai and Louvo, now declared their independence symbolically
by sending tribute to the Chinese court. So did principalities in Laos and
others to the south. Angkor was once again vulnerable to invasion from
every direction but the east, as Champa was no longer a power to be
reckoned with. A Thai invasion, in fact, occurred toward the end of the
thirteenth century and is recorded by Zhou Daguan.
ZHOU DAGUAN’S ACCOUNT OF ANGKOR,
1296–97
The record by Chinese envoy Zhou Daguan of his stay in Cambodia in
1296–97 is the most detailed account we have about everyday life and the
appearance of Angkor.36 Zhou’s memoir is rich in circumstantial detail as
he was not constrained by the Indian traditions that remove ordinary
people from literary consideration. In his account, for example, we see
Cambodians bathing, selling goods, and marching in processions. From
our point of view, it is a shame that Zhou devoted so much of his short
manuscript to exotic revelations of “barbarian  life. In fact, although he
provided us with what amounts to a newsreel—or perhaps a home video—
of his stay at Angkor, our appetites are whetted for the feature film he
might have made had he known (or cared) about the gaps that have
persisted ever since in the historical record.
The account, in translation, runs to fewer than forty pages, divided
into forty sections. These range from a short paragraph to several pages
and topically from religion, justice, kingship, and agriculture (to name only
four) to birds, vegetables, bathing customs, and slaves. Many features of
thirteenth-century Cambodian life that Zhou described—including tools,
draft animals, and aspects of rural commerce—are still observable today,
and others—such as slavery, sumptuary laws, and trial by ordeal—endured
in modified form until the nineteenth century at least.
Five of Zhou’s sections deal with religion, slaves, festivals, agriculture,
and the king’s excursions. Zhou found three religions enjoying official
status at Angkor: they appear to have been Brahmanism, Theravada
Buddhism, and Shaivism. The brahmans, Zhou noted, often attained high
positions as officials, but he could find little else to say about them: “I
don’t know what the source of their doctrine is. They have nowhere that
can be called an academy or place of learning, and it is hard to find out
what books they study.  The Theravada monks, known colloquially by a
Thai phrase (chao ku), closely resembled their counterparts in Theravada
Southeast Asia today: “They shave their heads and dress in yellow. They
leave their right shoulder uncovered, and wrap themselves in a robe made
of yellow cloth and go barefoot. And wear yellow robes, leaving the right
shoulder bare. For the lower half of the body, they wear a yellow skirt.
They are barefoot. 
Like the palace and the houses of high officials, Zhou tells us,
Buddhist monasteries could have tile roofs, but those of ordinary people
had to be made of thatch. Zhou was impressed by the simplicity of the
Theravada Buddhist wats, noting that (unlike Mahayana temples in
China) they contained “no bells, cymbals, flags, or platforms,  housing
only an image of the Buddha made of gilded plaster. Finally, Zhou
described the method used to inscribe palm leaf manuscripts, which
persisted well into the twentieth century, particularly in the case of
religious and historical texts.
The Shaivites, whom Zhou called “followers of the Dao,  inhabited
monasteries that were less prosperous than Buddhist ones. “They don’t
make offerings to an icon, only to a block of stone, like the altar stones of
the gods of the earth in China.  Although monastic Shaivism declined in
importance after the abandonment of Angkor and soon disappeared
altogether, Indianized cults, including the use of linga, continued into
modern times, and officials calling themselves brahmans continued to
work at the Cambodian court, where they were entrusted with the
performance of royal rituals and with maintaining astronomical tables.
Zhou’s account makes it clear that many of the people living at Angkor
were in some sense slaves, for he tells us that “those who have many slaves
have more than a hundred; those who have only a few have from ten to
twenty; only the very poor have none at all.  He went on to say that slaves
were generally taken as captives from mountain tribes, a practice that
persisted into the colonial era. It seems likely, in fact, that this is the way
Cambodian society built itself up over time, gradually absorbing and
socializing “barbarians,  who figure in such large numbers in the
inscriptions in Angkorean times. In Zhou’s account, slaves were set apart
from other people by several prohibitions: “They are only allowed to sit
and sleep under the house. If they are carrying out their tasks then they can
come up into the house, but they must kneel, join their hands in greeting
and bow to the floor before they can venture forward.  Slaves enjoyed no
civil privileges; their marriages were not even recognized by the state.
Forced to call their masters father and their mistresses mother, they tried
frequently to escape and, when caught, were tattooed, mutilated, or
chained.37
Although Zhou is informative about people at court and about slaves,
he is vague about the proportion of society in the 1290s that was neither in
bondage nor part of the elite. Clearly, the people with “a few  slaves would
fall into this category; as would the private landowners, discussed in an
earlier context by M.C. Ricklefs,38 and the Sino-Cambodians who were
active in local and international trade. Special privileges were extended to
the elite and to religious sects and special prohibitions applied to slaves,
but about those in between—the people, in fact, who probably made the
kingdom prosper—we know far less than we would like.
When Zhou goes into detail, however, his account is often
illuminating. His description of what he called a new year’s festival, which
occurred toward the end of November, is a good example of his narrative
skill:
A large stage is set up in front of the royal
palace. There is room on it for a thousand or
more people. It is hung everywhere with globe
lanterns and flowers. Facing it on a bank more
than two or three hundred feet away are some
stall structures that are made of wood joined and
bound together, like the scaffolding used to
make a pagoda. Every night they put up three or
four of these, or five or six of them, and set out
fireworks and firecrackers on top of them. The
various provincial officials and great houses take
care of all the costs. When night comes the king
is invited to come out and watch. He lights the
fireworks and firecrackers which can be seen a
hundred li [about a mile] away. The firecrackers
are as big as the rocks thrown by trebuchets and
make enough noise to shake the entire city.
This ceremony, probably observed by Zhou himself, appears to have been
celebrated at the end of the rainy season, when the waters of the Tonle Sap
begin to subside, setting in motion the first stages of the agricultural year.
After the move to Phnom Penh in the fifteenth century, the ceremony
became known as the water festival and was similarly marked by fireworks,
floats, and royal patronage until the monarchy was overthrown in 1970.
The festival was revived, along with the monarchy, in 1993.
As to agriculture, Zhou noted that three or even four rice harvests a
year were possible—a statistic singled out by Democratic Kampuchea in its
efforts to revolutionize production. It is unlikely that this abundance
applied throughout the country, for at Angkor several harvests were
possible only because of the concentration of manpower there, the rich
alluvial soil, and the water storage system perfected in the region over
several hundred years. Another factor was the peculiarly helpful behavior
of the Tonle Sap. According to Zhou’s comments on the agricultural
cycle’s relationship to this beneficent body of water:
For six months the land has rain, for six months
no rain at all. From the fourth to the ninth
month, it rains every day, with the rain falling in
the afternoon. The high water mark around the
Freshwater Sea Tonle Sap can reach some
seventy or eighty feet, completely submerging
even very tall trees except for the tips. Families
living by the shire all move to the far side of the
hills. From the tenth month to the third month
there is not a drop of rain. Only small boats can
cross the Tonle Sap.
The “miracle  of the Tonle Sap amazed many subsequent travelers to
Angkor. As long as the region supported a large population, the deposits
left by receding water provided useful nutrients for the soil. Even after
Angkor was abandoned, the lake remained the most densely populated
natural fishbowl in the world, providing generations of Cambodians with
much of the protein for their diet.
We would welcome the chance to interrogate Zhou Daguan about the
working of agriculture at this time. For example, how was the rice surplus
handled? Were cultivators for the most part free people or some kind of
slaves? Did agriculture differ markedly at Angkor from that in other parts
of the kingdom? How much land was in the hands of members of the royal
family and how much was controlled by Buddhist wats? What did this
control imply?
As we have no answers to these questions, we must be grateful to Zhou
for what he gives us. His description of rural marketing, for example, could
easily have been written about rural markets in Cambodia today:
The local people who know how to trade are all
women. . . . There is a market every day from
around six in the morning until mid-day. There
are no stalls only a kind of tumbleweed mat laid
out on the ground, each mat in its usual place. I
gather there is also a rental fee to be paid to
officials.
It seems likely, in view of Cambodia’s trade with China, that many
Chinese had by this time settled in Cambodia to engage in commerce.
According to Zhou, the products exported by Cambodia in the thirteenth
century were those that had been exported since the time of Funan; they
were to form the bulk of Cambodian exports until the twentieth century.
These were high-value, low-bulk items such as rhinoceros horns, ivory,
beeswax, lacquer, pepper, feathers, and cardamom. Imported products
included paper and metal goods, porcelain, silk, and wicker. It is unclear
from Zhou’s account how products were paid for although it seems
unlikely that government-sponsored currency was in circulation. Zhou was
fascinated by the king reigning at Angkor during his visit (Indravarman
III, r. 1296–1308). The king had reached the throne, Zhou remarked, in a
curious manner:
The new king was the old king’s (Jayavarman
VIII’s) son-in-law. When his father-in-law
died, the new king’s wife secretly stole the gold
sword and gave it to him. The old king’s own
son was thus deprived of the succession. . . . The
new king had a sacred piece of iron embedded
in his body, so that if anything like a knife or a
arrow touched him he could not be injured.
With this to rely on, he ventured to come out of
his palace.
These events, which had taken place just before the Chinese embassy’s
arrival, are alluded to discreetly by some inscriptions that date from
Indravarman’s reign. One of them refers to the “old age  of Jayavarman
VIII and a “host of enemies  inside the kingdom. Another, echoing a
sentiment in one of Jayavarman VII’s inscriptions, mentions that
Indravarman shaded the country with his single umbrella, whereas no
shade had existed before, under “a crowd of [such] umbrellas. 39
The transition between the reigns of Jayavarman VIII and
Indravarman III, in fact, probably marked a sharp transition in Cambodian
history, although we do not learn of it from Zhou Daguan. Under
Jayavarman VIII in 1285, the last stone temple, the Mangalartha, was
erected in the Angkor region. It was built by a high-ranking official and
dedicated to Siva; the “single umbrella  to which its inscription refers may
well have been Jayavarman’s intolerant Hinduism. We know that
Indravarman III was careful to sponsor Theravada Buddhists as well as
brahmans, and it is tempting to speculate about a religious ingredient in
his apparently nonviolent coup d’état.
The king’s procession, like so much else in Zhou’s account, gains in
interest when compared with similar processions recorded in the colonial
era.40 It becomes clear in comparing the procession with the one marking
Sihanouk’s coronation, or other twentieth-century processions for which
records have survived, that ceremonial Cambodian life and the hierarchical
arrangement of such events changed little between Angkorean times and
our own era. In Zhou’s words:
Each time he came out all his soldiers were
gathered in front of him, with people bearing
banners, musicians and drummers following
behind him. One contingent was made up of
three to five hundred women of the palace.
They wore clothes with a floral design and
flowers in their coiled-up hair, and carried huge
candles, alight even though it was daylight.
There were also women of the palace carrying
gold and silver utensils from the palace and
finely decorated instruments made in exotic and
unusual styles, for what purpose I do not know. .
. . Palace women carrying lances and shields
made up another contingent as the palace guard.
. . . All the ministers, officials and relatives of
the king were in front, riding elephants. Their
red parasols, too many to number, were visible
in the distance. . . . Late came the king,
standing on an elephant, the gold sword in his
hand and the tusks of his elephant encased in
gold. He had more than twenty white parasols
decorated with gold filigree, their handles all
made of gold.
Zhou then described a royal audience of the sort that Indravarman
conducted on a daily basis and closed his account by remarking
superciliously, “We can see from this that although this is a country of
barbarians, they know at first hand that they have a supreme ruler. 
5
CAMBODIA AFTER ANGKOR
The least-recorded period of Cambodian history falls between Zhou
Daguan’s visit to Angkor and the restoration of some of the temples there
by a Cambodian king named Chan in the 1550s and 1560s. The
intervening centuries witnessed major, permanent shifts in Cambodia’s
economy, its foreign relations, its language, and probably, although this is
harder to verify, in the structure, values, and performance of Cambodian
society. Evidence about these shifts that can be traced to the period itself,
however, is very thin. By the time the amount of evidence increases and
becomes reliable around 1550 or so, many of the shifts have already taken
place.
Evidence from the early decades of the period comes largely from
Chinese sources, for almost no inscriptions appear to have been carved on
stone inside the kingdom between the middle of the fourteenth century
and the beginning of the sixteenth. Indeed, whereas over a thousand
inscriptions have been catalogued for the years prior to 1300, less than a
hundred more were carved in later centuries. Other sources include a
Cham inscription and some inscriptions from Thailand, while Thai
chronicles written in the seventeenth century, one of them very
fragmentary, contain some accurate information about political and social
events. The Cambodian chronicles that purportedly deal with the period
appear to have been drawn from folklore and from Thai chronicle
traditions, and they are impossible to corroborate from other sources.1
THE SHIFT FROM ANGKOR TO PHNOM
PENH
The Chinese evidence is important, for as Michael Vickery and Oliver
Wolters have convincingly argued, the southward shifts in Cambodia’s
geographical and administrative center of gravity in the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries were probably connected with the rapid expansion of
Chinese maritime trade with Southeast Asia under the Mongols and the
early Ming. Twenty-one tributary missions were sent from Cambodia to
the Ming court in China between 1371 and 1432—more, it seems, than
throughout the entire Angkorean period—and although some of these
missions may have been purely ceremonial, they must have come primarily
to trade, to arrange for trade, and perhaps also to request Chinese support
against the depredations of the Thai. The number of missions and the
respect accorded them by the Chinese indicate not only that Cambodia
remained active and powerful during this period but also that the
Cambodian elite, less rigidly tied to religious foundations and the
ceremonial duties of brahmanical bureaucracy, were eager to exploit the
possibility of commercial relations with China. How and why this shift in
their thinking and behavior occurred is impossible to ascertain, but several
scholars have held that the shift should not be connected with the notion
of decline for, as Wolters has remarked, “perhaps we have become too
ready to regard the decline of Angkor in the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries as being on a catastrophic scale. 2 Indeed, throughout this
period, rulers inside the present-day frontiers of Cambodia were able to
compete for resources and trade with their new and prosperous neighbors
in the recently established kingdom of Ayudhya to the west. The region of
Angkor itself, as recent studies have revealed, was still quite heavily
populated, and several buildings in the region were restored in these years.
The Cambodians convinced the Chinese of their own continuing
importance and were occasionally able, well into the seventeenth century,
to attack Ayudhya and to defeat the Thai in war.
Because this shift of emphasis was accompanied by so few supposedly
Angkorean activities (such as stone temple construction, grandiose
inscriptions, and expanded irrigation works), authors have often spoken of
decline or collapse where change or transformation would be more
appropriate terms. Decline, for one thing, fails to explain Cambodia’s
enduring strength; for another, the word suggests that Jayavarman VII, for
example, was in some ways a more authentically Cambodian king than the
Theravada monarch observed in 1296 by Zhou Daguan. Some authors
have connected the royal abandonment of Angkor—a historical event that
may not even have taken place before the 1560s with a national failure of
nerve and with major losses of population. Such losses, the argument runs,
would have made it impossible to maintain irrigation works at Angkor,
and the water, becoming stagnant, could have become a breeding place for
malarial mosquitoes, further depleting the population in a spiraling
process. Still others have argued that Theravada Buddhism was in some
ways subversive of Angkorean cohesion while it invigorated the politics of
Ayudhya and Pagan in Burma; the peaceable nature of this variant of the
religion has been used to explain the defeats but not the Cambodian
victories nor those of the Thai who shared the same beliefs.
What emerges from the evidence is that Cambodia was entering what
Ashley Thompson has called its middle period well before the wholesale
abandonment of Angkor. Angkorean institutions—inscriptions, stone
temples, a Hindu-oriented royal family, and extensive hydraulic works, to
name four traditions—seem to have stopped, faded, or been redirected
soon after the conversion of the Cambodian elite and the general
population to Theravada Buddhism, an event that probably took place not
long after Jayavarman VII’s death. It would be premature to see these
social changes as springing uniquely or even primarily from the ideology or
content of the new religion. It is more likely that they were related to the
rise of the Theravada kingdom of Ayudhya to the west and to the
entanglement, which was to last until the 1860s, between the Siamese and
Cambodian courts. People, ideas, texts, and institutions migrated west
from Angkor to Ayudhya, where they were modified and eventually
reexported into Cambodia to survive as part of its genuine decline from the
eighteenth century onward. The migration would have prisoners of war,
including entire families, swept off to the west after successive Thai
invasions of Angkor, the most important of these perhaps occurring in
1431. As this process was going on, other people and institutions were also
migrating southward to the vicinity of Phnom Penh, where the capital of
Cambodia was to remain for the next six hundred years.3
The suitability of Phnom Penh as a site for a Cambodian capital
sprang in large part from its location at the confluence of the Mekong and
the Tonle Sap. A fortified city at this point, the “four faces,  could control
the riverine trade coming down from Laos as well as trade in pottery, dried
fish, and fish sauce from the Tonle Sap, to say nothing of incoming goods,
primarily Chinese in origin, approaching Cambodia via the Mekong
Delta, still largely inhabited by Khmer. Once the choice had been made to
become a trading kingdom—and it is impossible to say when, how, or why
this happened—locating the Cambodian capital at Phnom Penh made
economic sense.
It is likely that the shift of the capital also represented a momentary
triumph, later legitimized and prolonged, of regional interests and perhaps
those of an individual overlord, at the expense of people lingering near
Angkor or gathering strength in the Menam Basin to the west. These
members of a southeastern Cambodian elite—for these interests were
those of chiefs and their followings, rather than rice farmers singly or en
masse—probably took advantage of their distance from Ayudhya to trade
with China on their own account. It also seems likely that they could rely
on support from overlords long entrenched in the region, which was the
heartland of Funan, an area where Angkorean writ may often have been
ignored.
But these are suppositions. It seems more certain that the myth
connected with the founding of Phnom Penh, which tells of an old
woman’s discovery of a Buddha image floating miraculously downstream,
was concocted after the city had come to life, under a name suggestive of
its location at the crossroad of two rivers, a name that has survived into
modern Khmer as Chatomuk, or “four faces,  an interesting echo of the
iconography of the Bayon.4
The role played by foreigners adept at trade in this new city is difficult
to assess, but influential figures probably included speakers of Malay, from
Champa or the Indonesian islands who may have left behind in the
Cambodian language words such as kompong, or “landing place,  and psar,
or “market,  as well as several bureaucratic titles and administrative terms.
The Malay legacy may have been deeper than this and needs to be
explored, for seventeenth-century European descriptions of riverine
Cambodia, and the way its politics were organized, strongly resemble
descriptions from this era and later of riverine Malaya.5 Other foreigners
active in Phnom Penh at this time were the Chinese, already busily trading
at Angkor in the thirteenth century; there were three thousand of them in
Phnom Penh in the 1540s. It seems likely that Chinese and Malay traders
and their descendants married into the Cambodian elite, just as the
Chinese continued to do later on, tightening the relationships between the
king, his entourage, and commercial profits.
By the late fifteenth century, it seems, the social organization,
bureaucracy, and economic priorities of Angkor, based on heavy taxation,
forced labor, and the primacy of a priestly caste, were no longer strong or
relevant. New forms of organization, new settlement patterns, and new
priorities based in part on foreign trade became feasible and attractive.
Some of the reasons for the changes that Cambodia underwent in this
period have already been suggested. Another element conducive to change
might be called the emulation factor, affecting both Phnom Penh (and
other capitals nearby) and Ayudhya. These were newly established trading
kingdoms, respectful but perhaps a little wary of the idea of Angkor. By
the 1400s, Ayudhya and these Cambodian cities looked to each other
rather than to a brahmanical past for exemplary behavior. Until the end of
the sixteenth century, moreover, Phnom Penh (or Lovek or Udong) and
Ayudhya considered themselves not separate polities but participants in a
hybrid culture. The mixture contained elements of Hinduized kingship,
traceable to Angkor, and Theravada monarchic accessibility, traceable to
the Mon kingdom of Dvaravati perhaps, which had practiced Theravada
Buddhism for almost a thousand years, as well as remnants of paternalistic,
village-oriented leadership traceable to the ethnic forerunners of the Thai,
the tribal peoples hailing originally from the mountains of southern China.
Throughout the fourteenth century and much of the fifteenth, the official
language common to both kingdoms was probably Khmer. In both
societies the Buddhist sangha, or monastic order, was accessible, in its
lower reaches at least, to ordinary people. Brought into contact with each
other through wars, immigration, and a shared religion, the newly
established Thai and Khmer kingdoms blended with each other and
developed differently from their separate forebears.
This hybrid blending was rarely peaceful. Both kingdoms estimated
political strength in terms of controlling manpower rather than territory or
resources and interpreted such strength (and tributary payments) as
evidence of royal merit and prestige. The Thai would have learned from
the Khmer, and vice versa, to a large extent via defectors and prisoners of
war. Between the fourteenth and the nineteenth century there were
frequent wars, generally west of the Mekong, between the Cambodians
and the Thai. These laid waste the regions through which invading and
retreating armies marched. The invasions usually coincided with periods of
weakness in the areas that were invaded. In the 1570s, for example, after a
Burmese army had sacked Ayudhya, several Cambodian expeditions were
mounted against Siam. Invasion routes ran along the edges of the Tonle
Sap, and this fact probably made the site of Yasodharapura unsuitable as a
residential area for large numbers of unprotected people.
CAMBODIA IN THE FIFTEENTH AND
SIXTEENTH CENTURIES
The narrative history of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, about which
we know so little, can be disposed of fairly quickly. The Thai-oriented
administration of the Angkor region, it seems, was overthrown by forces
loyal to Phnom Penh toward the middle of the fifteenth century; that is,
perhaps about twenty years after the last Thai attack on the old capital.
During this period, a succession of kings, whose names and dates as
reported in the chronicles are probably fictional, held power in Phnom
Penh.
Chronicles suggest that by the end of the fifteenth century, conflict
had developed between these new rulers as they renewed and formalized
their relations with Ayudhya and with officials or chieftains with
followings rooted in the southeastern sruk, or districts. A former slave, the
chronicles state, led some of these forces, and Europeans writing
somewhat later stated that this new king was in fact a relative of the
monarch whom he had deposed.6 What is important for later events is that
the deposed king, Chan, took temporary refuge in Ayudhya before
returning with an army to depose the usurper. His restoration under Thai
patronage set a precedent that many Cambodian kings were to follow.
So did the fact that he was deposed by forces coming from the eastern
portions of the kingdom. From the 1620s onward, these regions of
dissidence could often rely on Vietnamese support. According to the
Khmer chronicles, a Cambodian king married a Vietnamese princess in the
1630s and allowed Vietnamese authorities to set up customs posts in the
Mekong Delta, then inhabited largely by Khmer but beyond the reach of
Cambodian administrative control.7 Over the next two hundred years,
Vietnamese immigrants poured into the region, still known to many
Khmer today as Lower Cambodia or Kampuchea Krom. When Cambodia
gained its independence in 1953, some four hundred thousand
Cambodians still lived in southern Vietnam, surrounded by more than ten
times as many Vietnamese. The Khmer residents developed a distinctive
culture, and many twentieth-century Cambodian political leaders,
including Son Sen, Son Sann, Ieng Sary, and Son Ngoc Thanh, were born
and raised as members of this minority. The presence of rival patrons to
the west and east set in motion a whipsaw between Thai and Vietnamese
influence over the Cambodian court, and between pro-Thai and pro-
Vietnamese Cambodian factions in the provinces as well. Already severe in
the 1680s,8 this factionalism lasted until the 1860s, and arguably was
revived under Democratic Kampuchea, where eastern-zone cadres were
accused by Pol Pot and his colleagues of having “Cambodian bodies and
Vietnamese minds. 9
The first European to mention Cambodia was probably Tome Pires,
whose Suma Oriental was written between 1512 and 1515. The kingdom
he described was a warlike one, whose ruler “obeys no one,  and Pires
hinted at the richness of the products that could be obtained from it.10 He
was relying, however, on hearsay. The first eyewitness account comes from
the Portuguese missionary Gaspar da Cruz, who visited Lovek toward the
end of King Chan’s reign in 1556. He left after about a year, disappointed
by his inability to make converts, and chose to blame his failure on the
superstitions of the people and their loyalty to Buddhist monks. Cruz was
impressed, indeed, by the solidarity of the Cambodians, and in an
interesting passage he remarked that they
dare do nothing of themselves, nor accept
anything new without leave of the king, which is
why Christians cannot be made without the
king’s approval. And if some of my readers
should say that they could be converted without
the king knowing it, to this I answer that the
people of the country is of such a nature, that
nothing is done that the king knoweth not; and
anybody, be he never so simple may speak with
the King, wherefore everyone seeketh news to
carry unto him, to have an occasion for to speak
with him; whereby without the king’s good will
nothing can be done.
He suggested that the sangha contained more than a third of the ablebodied
men in Cambodia or, by his estimate, some hundred thousand, a
fact with clear implications for politics and the economy. These monks
commanded great loyalty from the population, and Cruz found them to be
exceedingly proud and vain . . . alive they are
worshipped for gods, in sort that the inferior
among them do worship the superior like gods,
praying unto them and prostrating themselves
before them: and so the common people have
great confidence in them, with a great reverence
and worship: so that there is no person that dare
contradict them in anything. . . . It happened
sometimes that while I was preaching, many
round me hearing me very well, and being very
satisfied with what I told them, that if there
come along any of these priests and said, “This
is good, but ours is better,  they would all depart
and leave me alone.11
The absence of inherited riches cited by Cruz is a vivid example of
royal interference in everyday life. When the owner of a house died, Cruz
remarked, “All that is in it returneth to the king, and the wife and children
hide what they can, and begin to seek a new life.  Possessions, in other
words, were held by people at the king’s pleasure, as were ranks, land, and
positions in society. This residual absolute power, it seems, gave the
otherwise rickety institution of the monarchy great strength vis-à-vis the
elite. One consequence of the arrangements cited by Cruz was that rich
families could not, in theory at least, consolidate themselves into lasting
antimonarchical alliances; the king’s response to them (dispossessing a
generation at a time) suggests that kings distrusted the elite.
Cruz said nothing about Angkor, although a later Portuguese writer,
Diego do Couto, reported in 1599 that some forty years beforehand (in
1550 or 1551), a king of Cambodia had stumbled across the ruins while on
an elephant hunt. The story is not confirmed by other sources, but several
dated inscriptions at Angkor reappear in the 1560s, suggesting that the
date of the rediscovery may be accurate, although it may have taken place
during a military campaign instead of during a hunt, for the Angkor region
was a logical staging area for Cambodian armies poised to invade Siam.
Couto wrote that when the king had been informed of the existence of
ruins,
he went to the place, and seeing the extent and
the height of the exterior walls, and wanting to
examine the interior as well, he ordered people
then and there to cut and burn the
undergrowth. And he remained there, beside a
pretty river while this work was accomplished,
by five or six thousand men, working for a few
days. . . . And when everything had been
carefully cleaned up, the king went inside, and .
. . was filled with admiration for the extent of
these constructions.12
He added that the king then decided to transfer his court to Angkor.
Two inscriptions from Angkor Wat indicate that the temple was partially
restored under royal patronage in 1577–78. Both of the inscriptions, and
two more incised at Phnom Bakheng in 1583, honored the king’s young
son in whose favor he was to abdicate in 1584, possibly to delay a coup by
his own ambitious and more popular brother.13 The identically worded
Phnom Bakheng inscriptions, in fact, may refer to this infighting by
expressing the hope that the king would no longer be tormented by “royal
enemies.  It is equally possible, however, that the phrase refers to the Thai
royal family, with whom the Cambodian elite had been quarreling
throughout the 1570s.
Indeed, in spite of the apparent ideological solidarity noted by Cruz,
and the florescence of Buddhism reflected in several inscriptions, the
1560–90 period was a turbulent one in which Cambodian troops took
advantage of Thai weakness (brought on in part by the Burmese sacking of
Ayudhya in 1569) to attack Thai territory several times. According to
Europeans, the Cambodian king, worried by internal and external threats,
changed his attitude toward Catholic missionaries, allowing them to
preach and sending gifts of rice to the recently colonized centers of
Malacca and Manila in exchange for promises of military help (which
never arrived). Earlier, the king had apparently attempted to seek an
alliance, or at least a nonaggression pact, with the Thai.
The flurry of contradictory activities in the field of foreign relations
suggests instability at the court that is reflected in the frequent moves the
king made, his premature abdication, and his unwillingness or inability to
remain at peace with the Thai, who unsuccessfully laid siege to Lovek in
1587, a date confirmed by an inscription from southeastern Cambodia.14 If
subsequent Cambodian diplomatic maneuvering is a guide, it seems likely
that these sixteenth-century moves were attempts by the king to remain in
power despite the existence of heavily armed, more popular relatives and in
the face of threats from Ayudhya and the surprisingly powerful Lao states
to the north.
By 1593 Thai preparations for a new campaign against Lovek forced
the Cambodian king to look overseas for help. He appealed to the Spanish
governor-general of the Philippines, even promising to convert to
Christianity if sufficient aid were forthcoming. Before his letter had been
acted on, however, the king and his young son fled north to southern Laos,
and another son was placed in charge of the defense of Lovek. The city fell
in 1594.
Although Cambodian military forces were often as strong as those of
the Thai throughout most of the seventeenth century, and although
European traders were often attracted to Cambodia almost as strongly as
they were to Ayudhya at this time, Thai and Cambodian historiography
and Cambodian legend interpret the capture of Lovek as a turning point in
Cambodian history, ushering in centuries of Cambodian weakness and
intermittent Thai hegemony. The facts of the case as they appear in
European sources are more nuanced than this, but the belief is still strong
on both sides of the poorly demarcated border that a traumatic event (for
the Cambodians) had taken place.
The popular legend of preah ko preah kaev, first published in
fragmentary form by a French scholar in the 1860s, is helpful on this point
and is worth examining in detail.15 According to the legend, the citadel of
Lovek was so large that no horse could gallop around it. Inside were two
statues, preah ko (“sacred cow ) and preah kaev (“sacred precious stone ).
Inside the bellies of these statues, “there were sacred books, in gold, where
one could learn formulae, and books where one could learn about anything
in the world. . . . Now the king of Siam wanted to have the statues, so he
raised an army and came to fight the Cambodian king. 
The legend then relates an incident contained in the chronicles as well.
Thai cannon fired silver coins, rather than shells, into the bamboo hedges
that served as Lovek’s fortifications. When the Thai retreated, the
Cambodians cut down the hedges to get at the coins and thus had no
defenses when the Thai returned in the following year to assault the city.
When they had won, the Thai carried off the two statues to Siam. After
opening up their bellies, the legend tells us,
they were able to take the books which were
hidden there and study their contents. For this
reason [emphasis added] they have become
superior in knowledge to the Cambodians, and
for this reason the Cambodians are ignorant,
and lack people to do what is necessary, unlike
other countries.
Although keyed to the capture of Lovek, the legend may in fact be
related to the long-term collapse of Angkor and perhaps to the
relationships that had developed between Siam and Cambodia by the
nineteenth century, when the legend emerged in the historical record. The
temptation to prefer the earlier collapse as the source for the legend may
spring from the fit between the legend’s metaphors and what we know to
have happened, i.e., the slow transfer of Cambodia’s regalia, documents,
customs, and learned men from Angkor to Ayudhya in the period between
Jayavarman VII’s death and the Thai invasions of the fifteenth century.
The statue of preah ko is a metaphor for Cambodia’s Indian heritage and
clearly represents Nandin, the mount of Siva. The less precisely described
preah kaev is a metaphor for Buddhist legitimacy, embodied by a Buddha
image like the one taken from Vientiane by the Thai in the 1820s (and
known as a preah kaev) to be enshrined in the temple of that name in
Bangkok; a replica is housed in the so-called Silver Pagoda in Phnom
Penh. The seepage of literary skills from Cambodia to Siam and the
increasing power of the Thai from the seventeenth century onward are
ingredients in the legend which, like that of the leper king discussed in
Chapter 4, may contain a collective memory of real occurrences halfhidden
by a metaphorical frame of reference. The Cambodian scholar Ang
Choulean, in his discussion of this legend, has called it “partially historic,
mostly legend, but above all totally coherent. 16
The myth, in other words, may have been used by many Cambodians
to explain Cambodia’s weakness vis-à-vis the Thai in terms of its
unmeritorious behavior (chasing after the coins) and its former strength in
terms of palladia that could be taken away.
The closing years of the sixteenth century, when the capture of Lovek
took place, are well documented in European sources. These years were
marked by Spanish imperialism in Cambodia, directed from the
Philippines and orchestrated largely by two adventurers named Blas Ruiz
and Diego de Veloso.17 Their exploits illuminate three themes that were to
remain important in Cambodian history. The first was the king’s
susceptibility to blandishments and promises on the part of visitors who
came, as it were, from outer space. Both Spaniards were honored with
bureaucratic titles and given sruk to govern and princesses for wives. The
second theme was the revolution in warfare brought on by the introduction
of firearms, particularly naval cannon, which played a major part in all
subsequent Cambodian wars. Because they were masters of a new
technology, Ruiz and Veloso were able to terrorize local people just as their
contemporaries could in Spanish America, while accompanied by fewer
than a hundred men.
The third theme was that by the end of the sixteenth century the
Cambodian king and his courtiers had become entangled in the outside
world, symbolized at the time by the multitude of foreign traders resident
in Lovek and Phnom Penh. European writers emphasized the importance
of these people and the foreign residential quarters at Lovek. These
included separate quarters for Chinese, Japanese, Arabs, Spanish, and
Portuguese as well as traders from the Indonesian archipelago; they were
joined briefly in the seventeenth century by traders from Holland and
Great Britain.18 The traders worked through officials close to the king and
members of the royal family, as well as through their compatriots. In the
seventeenth century, according to Dutch sources, foreign traders were
required to live in specific areas of the new capital, Udong, reserved for
them and to deal with the Cambodian government only through
appointed representatives, or shabandar. This pattern may have originated
in China and also applied in Siam; its presence at Lovek in the depths of
Cambodia’s so-called decline, like other bits of data, suggests that the
kingdom was by no means dead.
The Spanish missionary San Antonio also left an account of the
closing years of the sixteenth century, which includes the adventures of
Ruiz and Veloso. His account is often illuminating and occasionally comic,
as when he attributes the construction of the temples at Angkor to the
Jews, echoing local disbelief in Cambodian technology.19 He was also
convinced that Spain should colonize the kingdom for religious and
commercial reasons, and this may have led him to exaggerate the value of
its resources, as French visitors were to do in the 1860s. His impressions of
prosperity may have sprung from the fact that visitors were forced by the
absence of overland communication to limit their observations of
Cambodia to the relatively rich and populated areas along the Mekong
north of Phnom Penh, an area that was still one of the most prosperous in
Cambodia when it was studied four hundred years later by Jean Delvert.20
The goods that San Antonio saw included gold, silver, precious stones, silk
and cotton cloth, incense, lacquer, ivory, rice, fruit, elephants, buffalo, and
rhinoceros. The last was valued for its horns, skin, blood, and teeth as a
“subtle antidote for a number of illnesses, particularly those of the heart,  a
reference to the Chinese belief that rhinoceros by-products were effective
as aphrodisiacs. San Antonio stressed that Cambodia was prosperous
because it was a gateway to Laos which, almost unknown to Europeans,
was assumed to be some sort of El Dorado. He closed his discussion of
Cambodia’s prosperity with a passage that might seem to have been lifted
from Hansel and Gretel, echoing the preah ko preah keo myth while altering
the villains: “There are so many precious things in Cambodia that when
the king [recently] fled to Laos, he scattered gold and silver coins, for a
number of days, along the road so that the Siamese would be too busy
gathering them up to capture him. 21
San Antonio also remarked that the country contained only two classes
of people, the rich and the poor:
The Cambodians recognize only one king.
Among them there are nobles and commoners. .
. . All the nobles have several wives, the number
depending on how rich they are. High ranking
women are white and beautiful; those of the
common people are brown. These women work
the soil while their husbands make war. . . . The
nobles dress in silk and fine cotton and gauze.
Nobles travel in litters, which people carry on
their shoulders, while the people travel by cart,
on buffalo, and on horseback. They pay to the
principal officials, and to the king, one-tenth of
the value of all goods taken from the sea and
land.
The slave-owning, nonmercantile middle class noted by Zhou Daguan
seems to have diminished in importance, although there is evidence from
legal codes and at least one chronicle that it continued to exist.22 It is
possible that its place was taken in Cambodian society to a large extent by
foreign traders and semiurban hangers-on, while ethnic Khmer remained
primarily rice farmers, officials, members of the sangha, and gatherers of
primary produce. San Antonio’s contempt for the sangha seems to have
exceeded his curiosity.
As so often happens in Cambodian history, the rice farmers are
omitted from the record. We see the people the visitors saw, the king, the
elite, the foreign traders, and their slaves. Inland from the kompong,
villages were linked to the trading capitals by economic relationships, by
taxation, and by the social mobility provided by the sangha; the villagers
were leading their lives. At least this is what we must suppose for without
these people, kingship and other institutions in Cambodia would have
withered on the vine. But like the particles of subatomic physics, in terms
of which atomic behavior makes sense, these major actors are invisible and
their voices are unheard.
In the early seventeenth century, Cambodia became a maritime
kingdom, with the prosperity of its elite dependent on seaborne overseas
trade conducted in large part by the European traders, Chinese, and ethnic
Malays operating out of Sumatra and Sulawesi. Japanese and European
visitors—Dutch, English, and Portuguese—left records of this period that
are useful as they corroborate and supplement the Cambodian chronicles.
These people were also involved in factionalism at the court and in
plotting among themselves.
The period came to a climax of sorts in the 1640s when a Cambodian
king married a Malay and converted to Islam.23 He is known in chronicles
as the “king who chose [a different] religion.  In 1642 a Dutch naval force
attacked Phnom Penh to avenge the murder of Dutch residents of the
capital, but it was driven off. In the 1650s rival princes sought military help
from Vietnam to overthrow the Muslim monarch, and when the troops
came they were reinforced by local ones recruited in eastern Cambodia, a
pattern followed in Vietnamese incursions in the nineteenth century and
the 1970s. After a long campaign the Cambodian king was captured and
taken off in a cage to Vietnam, where some sources assert he was killed
and others that he died soon afterward of disease.
The remainder of the seventeenth century saw a decline in
international trade as Cambodia’s access to the sea was choked off by the
Vietnamese and by coastal settlements controlled by Chinese merchants
who had fled southern China with the advent of the Qing dynasty. The
newcomers turned Saigon into an important, accessible trading center.
Phnom Penh became a backwater, and by the eighteenth century
Cambodia was a largely blank area on European maps. In the 1690s
Chinese traders with Japan reported that Cambodia had suffered a sharp
decline. One such trader wrote:
Cambodia is a poor country with a poorly
organized government and armed forces. There
are virtually no rich people. They do not
produce raw silk. Their main products are deer
hides, low quality brown sugar, lacquer . . . in
small quantities.24
VALUES IN SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY
CAMBODIA
It would be wrong to suggest that seventeenth-century Cambodian society
can be best understood in terms of timelessness. In many ways it differed
from its nineteenth-century counterpart. For example, nineteenth-century
Cambodia had been brought to its knees by foreign powers; for most of
the seventeenth century, Cambodia was still reasonably independent.
Nineteenth-century Cambodia was isolated from the outside world by the
same two powers, Siam and Vietnam, that dominated its internal politics;
seventeenth-century Cambodia, on the other hand, traded freely with
many countries until the 1680s. Also, the elite Cambodian literary
tradition, enshrined in the local version of the Ramayana, the Reamker, as
well as in the inscriptions at Angkor Wat and other works, was far more
vigorous in the seventeenth century than in the nineteenth, as we shall see.
Saveros Pou has attributed these changes in part to Thai influence but
more profoundly to what she referred to as a “slow degradation of values
from the seventeenth century on. 25 It is easy to share her impression after
reading the Reamker alongside some of the fatuous verse-novels composed
in the 1880s or after comparing the seventeenth-century legal codes,
translated by Adhémard Leclère and Gregory Mikaelian, with the
scattered and often timorous documents left behind by nineteenth-century
kings. Although the values she referred to emanated from the elite, Pou
saw the decline as one that altered the collective acceptance of traditional
values. She saw these values, in turn, as linked with Buddhist notions of
the cosmos (enshrined in the long didactic poem known as the Trai Phum,
“Three Worlds ), especially as these filtered into Buddhist teaching in oral
form enshrined in the aphoristic collection of laws, or chbab, until very
recently memorized by Cambodian schoolchildren. In other words she
viewed seventeenth-century Cambodia as a nation abiding by rules that
were later watered down, abused, or forgotten.
These values delineate proper conduct for the people. This conduct has
to do in large part with one’s position in society and governs the way that
one relates to others. Everyone, of course, comes equipped with several
positions, being at the same time older than some and younger than
others, richer and poorer, wiser and more foolish, and so on. An elderly
“inferior  is to be addressed with respect, for example; so is a younger
monk, and a monk of peasant origin, in theory at least, is to be paid
homage by a king. In many cases, moreover, one person’s patron is
someone else’s client.
The chbab stress several normative relationships of this kind, the most
important of which are probably those with parents and teachers.
According to the chbab, these authority figures convey material to be
memorized. There is nothing to discuss. The teacher’s relation to his
student, like so many relationships in traditional Cambodian society, was
lopsided.26
The teacher, like a parent, bestows, transmits, and commands. The
student, like the child, receives, accepts, and obeys. Nothing changes in the
transmission process, except perhaps the diminishing ignorance of the
student; knowledge is passed on by teachers who are former students over
generations. If this involves little or no progress, we should recall that the
idea of progress is not widespread and was not well known in precolonial
Southeast Asia. What kept society coherent, Cambodians believed, was
the proper observance of relationships among people as well as the shared
acceptance of Buddhist ideology. The first of these involved proper
language and appropriate behavior. The Khmer language, like many others
in Southeast Asia (Javanese is perhaps the best example), displays
differences between people in the pronouns they use in speaking to each
other and, in exalted speech (used to describe royalty or monks, for
example), in many verbs and nouns as well. Except among close friends
not otherwise related (for relatives, family-oriented pronouns would
normally be used), no word in traditional Khmer translated readily as you
or I. Instead, words emphasized the status of the speaker in relation to the
person addressed. Thus, you could be directed up, or down, as could I and
the other personal pronouns.27
Cambodian thinkers also saw the universe in graded terms, with people
inhabiting “middle earth.  This is a familiar concept in many cultures, and
so is its corollary, that behavior on Earth has been prescribed to an extent
by heroes who have passed above or below us. To those of us accustomed
to expanded (or fragmented) frames of reference, this picture of the world
entails enslavement or mystification. To scholars like Saveros Pou,
however, and, it would seem, to the poets who composed the Reamker
(“the Glory of Rama ), the picture offered little to complain about in
moral or aesthetic terms.28 Perhaps there is a relationship between the
day-to-day dangers of a society and the energy of belief that its thinkers
invest in otherworldly or exceptionally beautiful alternatives. But to say
this is to suggest that the Reamker is essentially a vehicle by which to
escape society; its authors and many of its listeners, on the other hand,
might say that the poem was an excellent vehicle for understanding it.
Egalitarian ideals and the related notion of class warfare have perhaps
eroded our sympathies for hierarchical societies, which in twenty-firstcentury
terms—themselves ephemeral, of course—appear to make no
sense. We think of society as being at war with itself or at peace, brushing
up against other societies with different interests, and so on. Seventeenthcentury
Cambodians had no word for society at all; the word sangkum
appears to have entered the language via Pali, and Thailand, in the 1930s.
They preferred to think of themselves in terms of a king and his subjects;
in terms of a spectrum of relative merit; or as people, scattered over time
and space, sharing recognizable ideals that sprang in turn from being
farmers, being lowly, being Buddhists, and speaking Khmer.
An excellent way to enter the thought-world of seventeenth-century
Cambodia is to look at the Reamker itself. The version that has survived
contains only some of the events related in the Indian original, and many
of these have been altered to fit into a Theravada Buddhist frame of
reference and into Khmer. Although its characters inhabit a recognizably
Indian, brahmanical world (as well as half-mythical kingdoms far away, it
seems, from Southeast Asia), their behavior, language, and ideals are very
much those of the Cambodian people who assembled to listen to the poem
or to watch it enacted by dancers, poets, and musicians. These additional
dimensions resemble the way in which medieval and Renaissance painters
in Europe depicted Greek and Biblical figures wearing European clothes.
The plot of the Reamker can be easily summarized. Sent out in disgrace
from the kingdom he was about to inherit, Prince Ream (Rama),
accompanied by his wife, Sita, and his younger brother, Leak (Laksmana),
travels in the forest and has many adventures until Sita is taken away by
the wicked Prince Reab (Ravana) who rules the city of Langka. Aided by
Hanuman, the prince of the monkeys, Ream attacks Langka, hoping to
regain his wife, and wins a series of battles. Here the Khmer version of the
narrative breaks off. In terms of plot alone it is difficult to understand the
hold the Reamker has had for so long on the Cambodian imagination. Its
language is often terse, and the development of the action is occasionally
obscure. This is partly because the poem has come down to us as a series of
fairly brief episodes, each suitable for mime (with the verse to be recited)
and geared to a performance by dancers or leather shadow puppets.
Reenactment of the Ramayana, Battambang, 1966. Photo by Jacques
Nepote.
In modern times, episodes from the poem were often enacted by the
palace dancers; in the countryside, they were acted out until recently as
part of village festivals.29 A complete oral version, somewhat different
from the printed text, was recorded in Siem Reap in 1969.30
What probably captivated so many Cambodians about the Reamker
was its combination of elegance and familiarity. Its subject, the conflict of
good and evil, is the theme of much epic literature. On one level the poem
is a statement of Theravada Buddhist values; on another, a defense of
hierarchy and the status quo; and on a third, it is about the contrast
between what is wild (prei) and what is civilized. The poem, in a sense, is
itself a civilizing act, just as the Javanese word for “chronicle  (babad) is
derived from one that means to “clear the forest. 31 Goodness in the poem
and its three heroes are linked to meritorious action and elegance. Evil
characters are unpredictable, passionate, in disarray.32 The contrast is by
no means mechanical, however, and is worked out in the course of the
poem with considerable subtlety. The savage ruler of the forest, Kukham,
for example, is filthy and spontaneous but is redeemed by his meritorious
deference to Ream. On the other hand, Reab, the prince of Langka,
consumed with passion and a slave to it, is almost as royal and at times
nearly as elegant as Ream and Sita.
The role played by the Reamker in prerevolutionary Cambodia
resembles the one enjoyed by the wayang, or shadow-puppet theater, in
Java and Bali. Many Cambodians, in their encounters with the poem,
found in it a completeness and balance that was probably missing from
their everyday lives. Good and evil, as we all can see, are at war, and evil is
often victorious. In the poem, however, the two are perpetually in balance,
held in place as it were by almost equal quantities of ornamental verse. In
the strophes that have survived, the major actors are never destroyed,
perhaps because evil and good must survive in order to define each other.
In the Reamker, as in many of the poems enacted in wayang, “nothing
happens  in the sense that nothing changes or turns around.33 The poem is
useless as a revolutionary text, and it is also useless in a narrow sense as a
historical document because we cannot locate it in a particular time and
place. Its verbal elegance and its austerity, however, allow us a glimpse of
the seventeenth-century Cambodian elite’s range of values and of a high
artistic polish that would be difficult to associate with a period of
intellectual decline.
Placed against what we know of events in the seventeenth century, the
gap between ideals and reality, as expressed in the poem, is wide and deep.
Chronicles and European sources reveal a country whose capital was
isolated from its hinterland, whose royal family was murderous, intriguing,
and unstable, and which was at the mercy, much of the time, of elite
factions, national catastrophes, and invaders. The persistence of
Cambodian elites, however, and the continuity of overseas trade suggest
that these crises, real enough at the time, were periodic rather than
perpetual and affected the parts of the country that armies moved across
rather than those outside their paths.
A revealing document from this period is a collection of fifty
anecdotes, allegedly provided by an elderly female member of the royal
family when a new set of Cambodian law codes was promulgated in the
1690s.34 These deal with the notion of lèse majesté and thus concern the
position of royalty in Cambodian society; they also reveal the strengths and
weaknesses of Cambodian kingship at this time. The king’s greatest
strength, it seems, sprang from his capacity to assign and revoke titles,
which were permissions to exploit people less fortunately endowed.
Offenders against the king could be stripped of their possessions, and
crimes of lèse majesté, even at several removes, were severely dealt with.
One anecdote, for example, relates how a princess ordered her advisers to
find her some fish. The officials encountered a fisherman, who muttered
that they had no right to take his fish without paying for them. The
officials took the fish and informed the princess about him, and he was
fined for disrespect. Another anecdote relates that a king, out hunting,
wandered from his entourage and encountered a buffalo tender who
addressed him in ordinary language. Instead of punishing the man, the
king returned to his followers to declare that he had increased his fund of
merit, as he had obeyed the law that did not allow a king to punish
subjects for disrespect outside the palace. “If I had shot the man when I
was alone,  he said, “I would have done a prohibited thing, and after my
death I would have fallen into hell, because, after all, the man didn’t know
that I was the king.  Other anecdotes reveal that the monarch was often
used by ordinary citizens as the court of last resort, as Zhou Daguan had
suggested in the thirteenth century.
These anecdotes differ from the chronicles and from the Reamker by
providing day-to-day information about the king. They provide a picture
of a variegated, conservative, and hierarchically organized society,
consisting of a few thousand privileged men and women propped up by an
almost invisible wall of rice farmers, in which great emphasis was placed
on rank and privilege and on behavior thought to be appropriate to one’s
status. The texts also reveal how perilous it was to enjoy power in
seventeenth-century Cambodia. The king, always fearful of being
overthrown, ruled through changeable networks of favorites and relations,
and he governed in many cases, it would seem, by pique. Officials rose into
favor and fell from one day to the next. A chronicle from this period, for
example, relates that a royal elephant trainer was named minister of war
(chakri) after saving the king’s life while he was hunting. Although the
society was permanently ranked, change was possible and could rarely be
predicted.
VIETNAMESE AND THAI ACTIVITIES IN
CAMBODIA
The impression of instability was exacerbated by increasing foreign
interference, particularly from the Vietnamese, whose “march to the south 
(nam tien) once the Cham kingdoms had been subdued had carried
colonists into the Mekong Delta by the 1620s. In 1626 the Nguyen
overlords of the south broke off their ties with the northern Le dynasty
and began governing the southern region on their own.35 Although the
area was lightly populated, Nguyen control eventually had the effect of
sealing off Cambodia’s southeastern frontier. The Vietnamese intrusion
also had three long-term effects. First, the takeover of Saigon (known to
Cambodians even today as Prey Nokor), meant that Cambodia was now
cut off to a large extent from maritime access to the outside world,
especially after other, smaller ports along the Gulf of Siam were occupied
in the early eighteenth century by Chinese and Sino-Vietnamese
entrepreneurs and Vietnamese troops.36 Cambodian isolation, which lasted
nearly two hundred years, was unique in precolonial Southeast Asia, with
the exception of Laos. Second, the Nguyen institutionalization of control,
a process that took more than two hundred years, eventually removed large
portions of territory and tens of thousands of ethnic Khmer from
Cambodian jurisdiction. This process produced a legacy of resentment and
anti-Vietnamese feeling among Cambodians inside Cambodia. It fueled
the collapse of Democratic Kampuchea and persists among many elite and
émigré Cambodians today. Finally, by taking over the delta and extending
de facto control over the Gulf of Siam (a state of affairs that lasted through
the eighteenth century), the Nguyen placed Cambodia in a vise between
two powerful neighbors; its capital region, moreover, was more accessible
to Saigon than to Ayudhya or Bangkok.
A side effect of the advent of Vietnamese power was that the
Cambodian royal family and its elite supporters were now liable to split
along pro-Thai and pro-Vietnamese lines. Depending on which power
supported an incumbent, his rivals would seek support from the other to
overthrow him. The history of Cambodia in the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries is one of repeated invasions from Vietnam and Siam, usually
preceded and followed by ruinous civil wars. Instability at the center
extended into the sruk. Because loyalty to the throne was costly, perilous,
and easy to avoid, by the end of the eighteenth century large areas of the
kingdom were under only nominal control from Udong, and this state of
affairs, in turn, decreased the king’s ability to respond to foreign invasions.
The king’s power to reward his friends and punish dissidents had also been
weakened by the rapid succession of monarchs, communication difficulties,
and the need to withstand foreign attacks.
At the same time, it seems likely that certain continuity persisted at the
capital among the bureaucratic elite who, along with the Buddhist sangha,
were the curators of Cambodia’s literate traditions. Several inscriptions at
Angkor from the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries record the
careers of important officials whose graceful rise to increasing
responsibility contrasts sharply with the jagged sequence of events related
by the chronicles.37 Moreover, Vietnamese and Thai accounts agree that at
several points in the eighteenth century (when it would be tempting to
assert that Cambodia had already been bled white), Cambodian forces
managed to repel their invading armies. This suggests, at the very least,
that some regional leaders, nominally officials of the crown, were able in a
crisis to mobilize enough supporters to harass and defeat a foreign
expeditionary force, especially when the defenders were skilled in guerrilla
warfare.
Evidence from the chronicles suggests, nonetheless, that one of the
darkest periods of Cambodian history came in the last few decades of the
eighteenth century. The ingredients, dynastic instability, foreign invasions,
and civil wars, were familiar ones, but this time they were on a large scale.
The 1750s and 1760s were relatively calm as far as invasions from Siam
and Vietnam were concerned, but they also saw a series of coups and
countercoups by rivals in the royal family that involved assassinations and
reprisals. In 1767 Ayudhya fell to a Burmese army. When a Thai prince
and his entourage sought asylum in Cambodia and threatened to set up a
legitimate kingdom there, a Thai regional overlord, Taksin, who had
assumed royal power in Siam, launched a series of expeditions against
Cambodia.38 His aims were to reestablish Thai hegemony over the region
and thus to backdate what he interpreted as his own enormous fund of
merit. He also sought to avenge himself against the Cambodian king who,
according to the chronicles, refused to send gifts to him because he was the
“son of a Chinese merchant and a commoner,  charges that appear to have
been true. There is some evidence also that he wanted to put his own son
on the Cambodian throne.
Thai pressure on the kingdom persisted into the 1770s, when the
Nguyen were distracted by a populist rebellion led by the so-called Tay
Son brothers, which threatened to overturn institutions throughout
Vietnam. Sensing weaknesses in northern Vietnam, Thai armies attacked
overland via Angkor, and their naval expeditions laid waste several small
ports along the Gulf of Siam, partly in order to divert Chinese traders
from this region to the vicinity of Bangkok and partly to avenge an earlier
expedition financed by Chinese merchants from these coastal enclaves that
had almost succeeded in capturing the new Thai capital, Thonburi. In
1772 the Thai burned down Phnom Penh. Seven years later a Thai
protégé, Prince Eng, then only seven years old, was placed on the
Cambodian throne at Udong under the regency of a pro-Thai official. In
1782 Taksin himself was deposed and was replaced by his minister of war
(chakri), then campaigning in Cambodia. Later known in the West as
Rama I, this man founded the dynasty that holds constitutional power in
Thailand today.
By the 1780s the heir to the Nguyen throne, fleeing the Tay Son, had
taken refuge in Bangkok, providing the basis for a rapprochement between
the two nations when and if the prince assumed control of all Vietnam, as
he did in 1802.
Prince Eng was taken off to Bangkok in 1790 and was anointed there
by the Thai before being sent back to Cambodia four years later. His reign,
which opened up a cycle of nineteenth-century history, is discussed in
Chapter 6; the fact that he was crowned in Bangkok is symbolic of his
dependence on the Thai.
CONCLUSIONS
The two main features of the post-Angkorean era were the shift of the
capital from the rice-growing hinterlands of northwestern Cambodia to
the trade-oriented riverbanks in the vicinity of Phnom Penh on the one
hand and the increasing importance of foreign powers in Cambodian
internal affairs on the other. It seems clear that the apparent selfsufficiency
of Angkor was as much related to the absence of military rivals
as to inherent strength or flexibility in Angkorean institutions. Many of
these institutions, in fact, persisted into the middle period, both in
Cambodia and in Thailand and got in the way of rapid bureaucratic
responses (supposing that this was psychologically possible or culturally
rewarding) in the face of foreign and domestic pressure.
Because of a shortage of data, it is impossible to enter the thought
world of Cambodian villagers or to compare their responses to experiences
at different stages of Cambodian history. How much difference did it
make for them to become Theravada Buddhists, for example? What were
the effects on daily life of the commercialization of the elite and the
economy after 1500—to say nothing of the other changes noted in this
chapter? Did the Europeans they saw have any effect on them? And what
differences did they perceive, aside from linguistic ones, in being
Cambodian instead of Thai?
There were several important changes between the fourteenth century
and the beginning of the nineteenth, and the most important of these,
perhaps, was the decline in the importance of a priestly class that for
several hundred years had effectively linked landholdings, control of slaves,
religious practices, education, and the throne. Another change was in the
declining power of the royal family to influence events, although periods of
relative weakness in the Angkor era, which must have occurred, are
difficult to pin down. Perhaps equally important, but even harder to
confirm, was the widespread and apparently increasing influence of the
Thai on Cambodian life. Saveros Pou regarded this process as inimical to
Cambodian identity, especially in terms of its effects on literary style, but
recognized its importance in the history of the period.
Another important change—the intrusion of the Vietnamese into the
official levels of Cambodian life—came later on, reaching peaks in the
nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Even in the eighteenth century,
however, Vietnamese activities had the effect of sealing off Cambodia from
the outside world at exactly the point when other Southeast Asian
countries, especially Siam, were opening up.
A final change was the decline in the popularity of kingship. Of all the
post-Angkorean kings of Cambodia, only Duang (r. 1848–60) and
Norodom Sihanouk seem to have struck a sustained chord of popular
approval. The disjuncture between the palace and the people that is
noticeable in the legal anecdotes of the 1690s probably widened in the
following century. But this so-called decline, like many notions put
forward about Cambodian history, is impossible to verify. After all, during
the heyday of Angkor, we have only the kings’ own words to support the
notion that they were popular. Like the Ramayana, the king and his
entourage had roles to play in people’s thinking, but they played central
roles only in their own. Although Clifford Geertz’s phrase “theater state, 
originally applied to pre-colonial Java and more recently to nineteenthcentury
Bali, can be used with caution to describe Cambodian court life in
this period, most Cambodian people probably knew and cared less about it
than some scholars, entranced perhaps by the exoticism of the “theatrical 
arrangements, might prefer. In periods of stability, of course, Cambodians
probably had more time for ceremony and more surpluses to pay for
ceremonies than in periods of warfare, famine, or distress.39
Between 1750 and 1850, however, the failure of successive kings to
deliver protection and stability may well have undermined the relevance of
the monarchy in the eyes of the rural population. But the texts that have
survived are ambiguous and inconclusive and, as we shall see, when
popular monarchs like Duang or Norodom Sihanouk came onto the scene
they were revered more than ever. In any case, the rural poor could
imagine no alternative set of political or patronage arrangements outside of
easily snuffed-out millenarian rebellions that could grant them the
protection they needed to plant, harvest, and survive.
6
STATE, SOCIETY, AND FOREIGN
RELATIONS, 1794–1848
In the half century or so before the arrival of the French, who established a
protectorate over Cambodia in 1863, Cambodian ideas about political
geography did not include the notion that the country was defined
primarily by the lines enclosing it on a map.1 Maps were rarely used, and
no locally drawn map of Cambodia in the early nineteenth century appears
to have survived.2 Instead, to the people who lived there, Cambodia
probably meant the sruk where Cambodian was spoken and, more
narrowly, those whose leaders (chaovay sruk) had received their official
titles and seals of office from a Cambodian king.
Cambodians also thought of their country as a walled city with several
imaginary gates. One chronicle places these at Sambor on the upper
Mekong, Kompong Svay north of the Tonle Sap, Pursat in the northwest,
Kampot on the coast, and Chaudoc, technically across the frontier in
Vietnam on the Mekong Delta.3 Fittingly, these gates were the places
where invading armies traditionally swept into Cambodia. The territory
they enclosed, in the form of a gigantic letter C (there was no eastern gate,
for armies did not cross the Annamite cordillera), covered roughly half the
area of Cambodia today.
Inside this imaginary wall, sruk varied in size and importance.
Although boundaries were generally vague, some, like Pursat and
Kompong Svay, extended over several hundred square miles; others, like
Koh Chan or Lovea Em, were islands in the Mekong or short stretches of
cultivated land along the river.
SOCIETY AND ECONOMY
Little information about the size and composition of Cambodia’s
population in this period has survived. Under Vietnamese suzerainty in the
1830s, a census was taken, but the Vietnamese dismissed its figures as
deflated.4 French administrators in the 1860s, working from roughly
compiled tax rolls, estimated Cambodia’s population at slightly less than a
million.5 The area between Cambodia’s imaginary gates, therefore, may
have supported about three-quarters of a million people in the 1840s, but
probably fewer, for the records are filled with accounts of regions being
depopulated by famine, flight, and invading armies.
This population was overwhelmingly rural. The largest town, Phnom
Penh, probably never held more than twenty-five thousand people.6 The
royal capital at Udong and the villages around it supported a population of
ten thousand or so in the late 1850s; the Khmer-speaking city of
Battambang, rebuilt by the Thai in the late 1830s, had three thousand
inhabitants in 1839.7 The only parts of the kingdom that were relatively
densely settled before the 1860s were those to the south and east of
Phnom Penh, like Ba Phnom and Bati, and to the north along the
Mekong River south of Chhlong. Significantly, these relatively wealthy
sruk were often located outside the routes of invasion and retreat chosen by
the Thai and the Vietnamese.
Nearly all the people in Cambodia were ethnic Khmer, who occupied
themselves with rice farming and with monastic and official life.
Commercial and industrial tasks were handled by minority groups.
Marketing, garden farming, and foreign trade, for example, were handled
by Chinese or by people of Chinese descent.8 Cattle trading, weaving, and
commercial fisheries were controlled by a Muslim minority composed
partly of immigrants from the Malay archipelago—known as chvea, or
Javanese, in Khmer—but largely of immigrants from Champa known as
Cham. The Kui people in the northern part of the country smelted
Cambodia’s small deposits of iron ore (and had done so at least since
Angkorean times). In the capital, a handful of descendants of Portuguese
settlers who had arrived in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries served
as translators for the king and were in charge of his artillery pieces.9 Before
the 1830s there seem to have been few Vietnamese residents in the
kingdom. Indeed, even without accurate statistics, it seems likely that there
were proportionately fewer of these various groups in the kingdom until
the arrival of the French. In the colonial era the numbers of Chinese and
Vietnamese residents increased enormously.10
Near the imaginary gates, in thinly populated sruk like Kratie, Pursat,
and Kompong Svay, tribal groups, such as the Porr, Stieng, and Samre
lived in isolated villages and collected the forest products that formed a
major source of a monarch’s income and the bulk of the goods that
Cambodia sent abroad.
By the standards of other states in Southeast Asia at the time,
Cambodia was poor. Unlike Burma and Laos, its soil contained few gems
or precious metals. Unlike Siam, its manufacturing, trade, and commerce
were underdeveloped, and finished goods, like brassware, porcelain, and
firearms all came from abroad. Unlike Vietnam, Cambodia’s
communications were poor and its internal markets undeveloped.
Agricultural surpluses were rare, savings were low, and money was used
only at the palace and by minority groups. Rural trade was in barter, as it
had been in Angkorean times, and was handled to a large extent by
women. Cambodia had a subsistence economy; most of its people spent
most of their time growing rice, with men and women working side by
side. Landholdings tended to be small (even high officials seldom had
access to more than a few hectares), yields were low, and irrigation works,
which might have increased production, were rare.
To the Vietnamese emperor Minh Mang, writing in 1834, Cambodia
was truly a “barbarian  country because “the people do not know the
proper way to grow food. They use mattocks and hoes, but no oxen. They
grow enough rice to have two meals a day, but they do not know how to
store rice for an emergency. 11 Villagers often maintained a common pond,
or trapeang, to water their rice, as they had done at least since the days of
Chenla, but there were no longer any of the dams and canals that had
characterized Angkorean civilization. This was partly because there were
now so few mouths to feed and partly because the mechanisms of state
control were so much weaker. There were no incentives and little
technology for farmers to vary their crops, market their surpluses, or
increase their holdings. Communications between the sruk were poor,
there were no roads to speak of until the 1830s, and bandits, invading
armies, and the followers of local officials carried off what surpluses they
could find.
Foreign trade was restricted because the potentially important entrepôt
of Phnom Penh was cut off from the outside world for most of this period
by the authorities in southern Vietnam. After 1808, in fact, visitors to
Phnom Penh needed Vietnamese permission to go there. Ports on the
Gulf of Siam, like Kampot, engaged in some coastal and peninsular trade,
but they were more closely integrated into the Vietnamese and Thai
economies than into the Cambodian one.12
A few ships traded with central Cambodia every year. Cargo lists from
two of these, bound for China and Japan respectively in about 1810, have
survived.13 Their cargoes consisted of relatively small amounts of several
different products. Three hundred pounds of ivory and two hundred
pounds of pepper, for example, were among the goods exported to Japan
while those going to China included small consignments of cardamom,
hides, feathers, tortoise shells, and aromatic wood. Exports to Vietnam in
the 1820s—trade with Vietnam was conducted partly in a tributary
framework—included such goods as ivory, gutta percha, cardamom, dried
fish, and elephant hides.
These were all traditional exports. The lists are like others that have
come down from the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries,
particularly concerning junk trade with Japan and, via Chinese sources,
from the Angkorean period.14 External trade, including tribute, as we shall
see, was an important source of the king’s revenues and probably was
important to the Chinese community in Phnom Penh and to privileged
members of the king’s entourage. But it was insignificant as far as the rest
of the country was concerned.
Most Cambodians lived in villages. These can be divided, for the early
nineteenth century at least, into three broad types. The first can be called
kompong after the Malay word meaning “landing-place,  which often
formed part of their names, as in Kompong Svay and Kompong Som.15
These were located along navigable bodies of water and could support
populations of several hundred people. Often they would include a chaovay
sruk and his assistants; the kompong was usually enclosed in a stockade.
Some of the inhabitants were likely to be Chinese or Sino-Khmer, Malay,
and Cham, although minorities tended to keep to themselves in separate
hamlets that formed elements of the kompong. Kompong were in touch with
others on the same body of water, with rice-growing villages around them,
and indirectly with the capital and the court. Through trading, travel,
hearsay, and invasions, people in the kompong had some awareness of
events elsewhere.
A rice-growing village in Kompong Speu, 1961. Author’s photo.
Rice-growing villages, the second category, enclosed the kompong,
ideally in a broken arc. Poorer and smaller than kompong, rice-growing
villages were numerous and more likely to be populated entirely by ethnic
Khmer. Houses were scattered around in no special order, often near a
Buddhist monastery, or wat, and also near the pond or stream that
provided water for the village. Rice-growing villages were linked to the
kompong and the world beyond in irregular ways—through incursions of
officials looking for recruits or rice; through the wat, whose monks were
encouraged to travel about in the dry season; through festivals at the new
year and at other points in the calendar; and through trade with the
kompong, exchanging rice and forest products for metal, cloth, and salt.
Rice-growing villages were unstable because they lacked means of
defense and because, unlike rice growing villages in Vietnam, no
institutionalized ancestor cult anchored people to one place rather than
another. The chronicles are filled with references to villagers running off
into the forest in times of crisis. In times of peace, their lives were shaped
by the contours of the agricultural year and the ceremonies—Buddhist,
animist, and vestigially Hindu—that marked off one stage of the ricegrowing
cycle from another.16
The opposition between wild and civilized, noted in the discussion of
the Reamker in Chapter 5, persisted in the literature of the nineteenth
century. A verse chronicle from Wat Baray, in the north-central part of the
kingdom, deals with this theme repeatedly while offering a chronological
treatment of nineteenth-century events. The chronicle relates the fortunes
of a bureaucratic family caught up in the turmoil of Vietnamese occupation
and civil war. Driven into the forest, they lose their identity, regaining it
only when new titles are bestowed on male members, first by a Thai
monarch and later by a Cambodian one. The chronicle was composed to
celebrate the restoration of Wat Baray in 1856, and the audience to whom
it was recited would for the most part have recognized the events related in
it as true. What gives the chronicle its literary resonance is the way in
which the lives of the characters follow patterns laid down for them by the
Reamker and Buddhist ideology. The restoration of their status
accompanied the restoration of the king; demerit was seen, in some way, as
associated with the forest, a lack of official titles, and misbehavior
impossible to trace.17
Similarly, in a poignant Cambodian folktale probably well known in
the 1800s, three girls who are abandoned by their mother become wild and
turn into birds, happily crossing the border between forest and field where,
as it turns out, the birds they have become are most frequently to be
found.18 Because people’s grip on the things we take for granted was so
precarious in nineteenth-century Cambodia—dependent on the goodwill
of foreigners and overlords, on rainfall, and on health in a tropical climate
—it is understandable that “civilization,  or the art of remaining outside
the forest, was taken so seriously by poets and audience alike.19
The third type of village lay hidden in the prei, or wilderness, that
made up most of Cambodia at this time. Here the people were illiterate
and usually non-Buddhist; they spoke languages related to Khmer but
owed no loyalties to the kompong or the capital unless these had been
forced from them. The villages were frequently raided for slaves, and they
were economically important because their populations were able to exploit
forest resources that were valued in the capital and abroad. Their political
loyalties, however, were to other villages in the prei, where people spoke
the same dialect and performed similar religious rites.
PATRONAGE AND GOVERNMENT
How were Cambodian villages governed in the early nineteenth century?
Some French writers have asserted that at this time they had no
government at all,20 and in most of them relations with outsiders and with
the state were indeed sporadic and unfriendly. Quarrels within a village or
between neighboring villages were settled by conciliation rather than by
law, and often smoldered on for years. Villages were usually ruled, for
ceremonial purposes and for the purposes of relations with higher
authorities, by elderly men chosen by the villagers for their agricultural
skill, literacy, good conduct, and fair-mindedness. Taxes in rice and labor
seem to have been paid, irregularly, on demand. Village government was
perhaps more noticeable in the kompong, where there were more officials
and hangers-on, but there is no evidence that any villages in Cambodia
were governed by formally constituted councils of elders, as was the case in
nineteenth-century Vietnam.21
Rice-growing villages and those in the prei could be days apart from
each other and from the nearest representative of authority. In their
isolation the villagers faced inward, toward the lives and traditions they
shared with one another. They identified themselves and saw their history
in terms of localized religious traditions passed on from one generation to
the next. Outside the villages, just past the fields in most cases, lay the prei,
crowded with wild animals, malarial mosquitoes, and the spirits of the
dead. Beyond the prei, where villagers seldom ventured, lay the world of
the kompong, the capital, and the court.
French writers in the nineteenth century often denigrated Cambodian
society (one of them referred to its institutions as “worm-eaten débris )22
and compared it unfavorably with their own “rational,  centralized one or
with that of the Vietnamese. The trend has continued among some
anthropologists concerned with Thailand, who have referred to Thai
peasant society as “loosely structured. 23 The phrase is helpful, whether or
not one attaches values to tight structure, in the sense that in Thai and
Cambodian villages, in the nineteenth century at least, there were no
“durable, functionally important groups  or voluntary associations aside
from the family and the Buddhist monastic order, or sangha. When a
village organized itself for defense, for instance, or for a Buddhist festival,
it did so for a short time in response to a specific need.
Despite the apparent informality of these arrangements, there was
considerable structural consistency in each Cambodian village and family.
This arose from the fact that Cambodians always identified themselves in
terms of their status relative to the person being addressed. This
identification located them for the moment at a particular, but by no
means fixed point in a flexible set of dyadic relationships extending
downward from the king and the sangha through the graded bureaucracy
of the capital and kompong to the villages and past them to the landless
debt-slaves and minority peoples living literally at the edges of the state.
As with most systematic social arrangements, what mattered to the people
who used the system was the place they occupied inside it. If a person’s
place was relatively secure, people in weaker positions sought him out and
offered homage in exchange for protection. The society, in a sense, was
fueled by the exchange of protection and service implied in these “lopsided
friendships,  as they have been called.24 In a village context these links
might be with older or more fortunate members of one’s family, monks in
the local wat, bandit leaders, government officials, or holy men (nak sell)
who appeared from time to time, promising their followers invulnerability
and riches.
In the kompong and the capital, where people no longer grew their own
food, patronage and clientship became more important and more complex.
Having a patron and having clients were connected with one’s chances to
survive. People with access to power accepted as many followers or slaves
as they could. In many cases, these men and women had contracted debts
to their patrons, which they then spent their lifetimes working off. The
widespread presence of slavery in nineteenth-century Cambodia should
cloud over, to an extent, the sunny notion that clients entered their
“lopsided friendships  as volunteers with a variety of choices. But it is also
true that many people enslaved themselves to a patron, or me (the word can
also mean “mother ), to protect themselves against the rapacity of others.
The rectitude and permanence of these relationships had been
drummed into everyone from birth. Cambodian proverbs and didactic
literature are filled with references to the helplessness of the individual and
to the importance that everyone accept power relationships as they are.
Both sides of the patron-client equation, in theory at least, saw their
relationships as natural, even obligatory. “The rich must protect the poor, 
a Cambodian proverb runs, “just as clothing protects the body. 25
The relationships in fact were seldom that genteel. Throughout
Southeast Asia, patrons, like kings, spoke of “consuming  the territory and
people they controlled, and there are few just officials in Cambodian
folklore, in which officials are compared to tigers, crocodiles, and
venomous snakes. Rural government was seen as an adversary proceeding.
In one sruk at least, when a new chaovay sruk took office, a cockfight was
held. One bird represented the newly arrived official; the other, the people
of the sruk. The outcome of the fight supposedly gave both sponsors a hint
about the balance of power that was expected to ensue.26
Why did the people accept these demeaning arrangements? Partly it
was a case of force majeure. The alternatives of individual flight or
organized resistance were usually impossible. Moreover, a man without a
patron was fair game, and an unknown patron, like a foreigner, was more
of a threat than one who lived nearby. Although the chaovay sruk often
“ate  what little material wealth he could get his hands on, the social
distance between him and the rest of the kompong was not especially great.
His wives, for example, were local women. He lived in a simple house,
chewed betel, and sponsored festivals at the wat and ceremonies to
propitiate the nak ta. These officials shared their clients’ food, their belief
in magic, their vigorous sense of the absurd, and their distrust of other
officials and outsiders. Probably because they lived among the people they
supposedly controlled, chaovay sruk were more responsive to local issues
than were authorities in the capital. The fact that all these “lopsided
friendships  could be renegotiated in times of stress added to the instability
of the system and perhaps to its attractiveness in the eyes of villagers and
slaves.
For most Cambodians, these shifting networks of subordination and
control, chosen or imposed, benevolent or otherwise, marked the limits of
their experience and of their social expectations. Their ideas about the
king, on the other hand, and about the Buddhist sangha took a different
form and were expressed in a different language. Although it is useful to
place the king and the sangha at the end of imaginary chains of local and
spiritual authority extending down through the officials to the people, the
people saw them as operating on a different plane and on a different set of
assumptions. Little is known about the sangha in mid-nineteenth-century
Cambodia, and it could be misleading to assert that conditions were the
same as those in Siam or Burma. There is no evidence, for example, that
the sangha played a political role vis-à-vis the royal family, although monks
and ex-monks were active in the anti-Vietnamese rebellion of 1821.27 By
and large, monks were widely respected as repositories of merit, as sources
of spiritual patronage, and as curators of Cambodia’s literary culture. They
occupied a unique, mysterious place in Cambodian life because they had
abandoned—temporarily at least—agriculture, politics, and marriage.
People’s ideas about the king tended to be grounded in mythology
rather than their own experience. The relationship of the king to most of
his subjects was not negotiated, rarely enforced, and was seldom face to
face. For most of the early nineteenth century, by choice or by
circumstance, the monarch was confined to his palace or lived in exile in
Siam or Vietnam. Given the weight of traditional and popular literature
about him and because they never saw him, views of the king held by
villagers tended to be vaguer and more approving than their views of each
other, their patrons, or even the nak ta. The king was at once as real and as
unreal as the Lord Buddha. People would have accepted the Ramayana’s
description of royal duties; they were “to be consecrated, to sacrifice, and
to protect the people. 28 Many of them believed that the king could
influence the weather. Unlike the sauphea, or judges, he could dispense
true justice, and he was often the only political source of hope among
peasants. This cluster of ideas persisted into the colonial era and beyond.
Casting a net on the Mekong, 1988, a technique that has remained
unchanged for several hundred years. Photo by Christine Drummond.
The king, of course, was not always or even often in the villagers’
thoughts, but when he appeared in his capital after years of exile, as Eng
did in 1794, Duang nearly half a century later, or Norodom Sihanouk
1991, the event ignited widespread rejoicing.
Several other segments of Cambodian society affected people’s lives in
the villages and the outcome of Cambodian politics. These included minor
sruk officials and hangers-on, who were appointed in some cases from the
capital and in others by the chaovay sruk; ex-monks, or achar, who acted as
religious spokesmen and millenarian leaders, often in opposition to the
chaovay sruk; itinerant traders, actors, and musicians; and poor relations of
the rich, who were able to act as go-betweens. Unfortunately, the elitecentered
chronicles usually devote little space to these categories of people
so it is difficult to assess their power, except indirectly. A rice-growing
village going into revolt against the Vietnamese, as many did in 1820 and
1841, for example, was unlikely to have done so merely through the
exhortations of a high official.
THE OKYA
Historical records, on the other hand, have left a good picture of
Cambodia’s high-ranking officials, or okya.29 Included in their number
were the chaovay sruk and the officials surrounding the king. It is
impossible to say how many okya there were at any given time. Lists of
officials assembled in the 1860s and 1870s for the French are full of gaps
and contradictions. Many of the titles in these lists do not appear to have
been used, and titles occur in other sources that do not appear in the lists.
Roughly, however, there seem to have been about two hundred okya in the
capital and the countryside throughout most of the nineteenth century.
The number was probably smaller after defections to the Thai in the 1830s
and larger after Duang’s accession in 1848. For these two hundred men,
about seven hundred titles were available for use. Some of these, like those
carried by the king’s highest advisers and by most of the chaovay sruk, were
always used. Others seem to have lapsed, for a while at least, after having
been used by one or several incumbents.
Everything about the titles and the work associated with them, except
the fact that they were conferred on the incumbent by the king, was
subject to adjustment. Sometimes a title carried a rank. Sometimes it was
associated with a job, such as maintaining the king’s elephants, guarding
his regalia, or collecting taxes. Certain titles were reserved for certain sruk,
and the word sauphea when it occurred in a title often implied judicial
functions. But none of these rules was rigorously applied. Favorites or
people out of favor were given jobs to do or removed from them on an ad
hoc basis. People went up the ladder (or fell off) quickly. For example, one
official whose function was to be in charge of the throne room of the
second king (hardly an arduous calling) was named to head a diplomatic
mission to Bangkok in 1819. Another, whose duties were to survey the
levels of rice in the royal storehouses, led an army against the Thai in
Battambang in 1818.
The titles that okya carried usually consisted of two or three honorific
words, like ratna (“jewel ) or verocana (“splendor ), drawn from Pali or
Sanskrit. The okya received their titles along with the seals of office and
insignia of rank (which included tiered umbrellas, betel containers, court
costumes, and the like) from the king’s hands in an intentionally awesome
ceremony built around an oath of allegiance that had been in effect in
more or less the same form for at least eight hundred years. At that time,
and at regular intervals, the okya were expected to give presents to the king.
French writers equated this exchange of titles and gifts with the notion
that the Cambodian government was corrupt because jobs were available
only to the highest bidder. At one level of thinking this was true, but little
ethical weight was given to the transaction. High bidders, after all, were
people whose power had to be reckoned with. Twice a year the okya
assembled at the royal wat near the palace where they drank the “water of
allegiance —water brought to the capital, in theory, from streams
throughout the kingdom—and renewed their oaths of allegiance to the
king. Failure to attend this ceremony was tantamount to treason.
Once in office, an okya became part of the komlang, or strength (i.e.,
entourage) of some higher-ranking person. This might be one of the king’s
advisers, a member of the royal family, or the king himself. A similar
system was in effect in Siam. It is not clear whether these alliances were
meant to check or to enhance the power of the okya in question. Probably
they served both purposes at once. The interconnections between certain
regions, official posts, family ties, and particular jobs in this period remain
obscure. One manuscript chronicle, dating from the early nineteenth
century, suggests that the landholdings of okya in certain regions persisted
from one generation to the next, even when the titles of one okya were not
passed along to his son.30 Titles in Cambodia, in any case, were not
hereditary. Even the successor to the throne was chosen after a monarch’s
death from among several eligible candidates. A similar fluidity affected
okya families, although high status seems to have run in particular families
whose members enjoyed access to the king.
Despite these continuities, there were few certainties in Cambodian
political life. Theoretically, the survival of an okya depended on the king.
Akin Rabibhadana has cited a 1740 Thai decree that “a king can turn a
superior person into a subordinate person, and vice-versa. When he gives
an order, it is like an axe from heaven. 31 In reality, however, a king’s
power depended on how recently he had attained it and how many
outstanding debts he had. It was hampered in any case by poor
communications between the capital and the sruk.
A new king at the start of a dynasty, or after a period of exile, could
often act like an “axe from heaven  and fill okya positions with men who
had been loyal to him in his climb to power. King Duang rewarded his
followers in this way in the 1840s, as we shall see, just as the first kings of
the Chakri dynasty in Thailand (1782–) and Nguyen dynasty in Vietnam
(1802–1945) rewarded theirs. Under a weak king, on the other hand, or
one entangled in long-standing obligations, perhaps to older people, okya
tended to root themselves in the sruk. In the process they became become
more or less independent.
Uncertainty was an occupational hazard of Cambodian life. Everyone
was on the lookout against everyone else. An okya’s obligations toward his
king, his family, and his patrons sometimes overlapped and sometimes
were in conflict. The other okya were potential allies and potential
enemies; alliances and betrayals that took advantage of existing power
balances occupied a good deal of an okya’s time.
Cambodia in the 1800s was not a bureaucratic society like China or
Vietnam, and in times of peace an okya’s official duties were light. He had
to wait upon his patron, there was little paperwork to do, and many tasks,
like requisitioning supplies for the palace or raising armies for defense
(Cambodia had no standing army), were farmed out among several okya.
This was done perhaps to keep a single official from becoming too
powerful and perhaps because there were no institutional mechanisms to
prevent ambitious okya from shouldering each other aside in search of
profit.
The judgment implied in these remarks may be too strong. Some okya
were accomplished poets and musicians, and others were generous patrons
of Buddhism and the arts. A few emerge from the chronicles as
competent, innovative, or brave, but the uncertainty of favor, the ubiquity
of rivals, and the unreliability of followers militated against an okya’s being
active or even attracting official notice. The okya and the people, then,
were tied to each other with bonds of terror, affection, duty, and contempt
within the framework of a shared culture. In Cambodian terms the system
worked, but when the Vietnamese tried to use the okya as their spokesmen
in Cambodia in the 1830s and 1840s, they found them incapable of
governing the country in a Vietnamese way—which is to say, of
administering regions, conducting cadastral surveys, collecting taxes, and
making detailed reports.
Aside from the king’s five closest advisers, who formed a kind of
cabinet, the most active and visible okya were the chaovay sruk. These men
enjoyed considerable freedom and considerable power. They were
authorized to collect taxes from their sruk, which meant that they had
access to any surplus crops they could lay their hands on, and they were
authorized to mobilize manpower for warfare or public works. In practice
they maintained small private armies, as did their counterparts, the riverine
chieftains of nineteenth-century Malaya. In populous sruk, these armies
sometimes contained several thousand men; in others, they seem to have
acted as bodyguards for the chaovay sruk. Access to manpower and rice
meant that, in effect, the chaovay sruk controlled the balance of power in
the kingdom. In fact, they more often acted individually than collectively,
responding to local interests and dyadic arrangements. This meant that a
king could count on some chaovay sruk but not on others and that invading
armies might find some chaovay friendly and others opposed to them.
Some chaovay sruk were more important than others. Five of them,
called sdac tran, or kings of the field, were the highest-ranking okya and
were responsible, in an unspecified way, for the governance of several sruk
at once.32 Each of these groupings was known as a dei, or “earth. 
Unfortunately, nineteenth-century references to the phrase sdac tran occur
only in French texts, and the meaning of tran itself is not clear. The
officials seem to have acted as viceroys, or stand-ins for the king, in the
performance of annual ceremonies in the five dei honoring the nak ta. They
had the power to order executions, which the other chaovay sruk did not. In
a functional sense they echoed the five high ministers around the king.
These five ministers in the capital were led by a first minister,
sometimes referred to as the ta-la-ha, and included ministers of justice
(yomraj), of the army (chakrei), of the navy and foreign trade (kralahom),
and of the palace (veang). Each of these officials maintained his own
komlang and probably had economic and patrimonial links with certain
sruk. Loosely defined territorial responsibilities of these men overlapped or
extended to those of the sdac tran and the chaovay sruk, as well as those of
certain members of the royal family who were also entitled to “consume 
particular regions. In times of stress, as several chronicles reveal, okya
retreated to their villages, where they had relatives and land. Despite these
regional links, however, the high-ranking okya spent their time close to the
king, except in war, when some of them were called on to recruit troops
and act as generals in the field. Their careers were tied to the fortunes of
the king. Their effect on life in the countryside is not so clear. The palaceoriented
chronicles probably exaggerate the importance of these men, and
so did the Vietnamese when they looked for people to help them centralize
and tidy up Cambodian government in the 1830s.
The last segment of Cambodian society that came between the
villagers and their king consisted of other members of the royal family. In
theory there could be hundreds of these, for kings were traditionally
polygamous, but in the nineteenth century a series of deaths and
coincidences sharply reduced their number. King Eng, who died in his
twenties, had no surviving brothers and only five children. The oldest of
these, Prince Chan, came to the throne when he was only six. When he
died more than thirty years later, he left four daughters but no sons. His
three brothers (the fourth had died as a child) went to Bangkok in 1812
and stayed there, with brief exceptions, until Chan’s death in 1835. This
meant that for most of his reign Chan was the only male member of the
royal family living in Cambodia. The factionalism and jockeying for
position, a conventional feature of Cambodian court life before and since,
took place offstage, in Siam, and in the late 1830s in the Cambodian sruk
under Thai control.
The Cambodian king, at the pinnacle of society, was remote from his
subjects. Scholars have argued that this remoteness was expected of any
Asian king. He was to rule by his largely invisible example, just as the sun
shone, and he was to act as the custodian of a fund of merit and power—
viewed perhaps as an interlocking, expendable commodity—that he had
accumulated in previous existences en route to the throne. What has
sometimes been called the purely religious or symbolic importance of
kingship in Southeast Asia, as transmitted in Indianized texts, has been
overstressed. The frontiers between political and religious actions and
institutions were neither sharply delimited nor especially important. In
their daily lives, Cambodian kings were as concerned with mere survival as
they were with their religious and ceremonial roles. Nonetheless, it would
be incorrect to blot out the religious importance of kingship with evidence
—however easy to assemble—of a given king’s weakness or fallibility.
Having a king was indispensable. According to the Ramayana, a country
without a king enjoys “neither rain nor seed, neither wealth nor wife,
neither sacrifices nor festivals, 33 and the alarm of the okya in 1840–41
when Cambodia was briefly without a monarch shows how deeply
ingrained these notions were. Only a king was empowered to hand out the
official titles, seals of office, and insignia of rank that held the Cambodian
official class together. One Cambodian law even stated that an official
without a seal did not need to be obeyed.34
In addition to setting Cambodia’s official class in motion—an action
that had no consistent effect on village life—the Cambodian monarch, like
his counterparts elsewhere in Southeast Asia, presided over a series of
partly brahmanical, partly Buddhist, and partly animistic ceremonies that,
from the villagers’ point of view, defined the boundaries of his merit and
the limits of the agricultural year and were closely related to the success or
failures of their harvests. The ceremonies included ones that honored the
king’s ancestors and the nak ta, ones that inaugurated and closed the ricegrowing
cycle, and ones that marked off stages of the Buddhist and solar
calendars. In many of them the king was assisted by so-called court
brahmans called Baku who also acted as guardians of his regalia—the
sacred sword, arrows, and other objects that he handled only once in his
lifetime, at his coronation. It is impossible to decide if the regalia were
political or religious. Without them, a monarch could rule—handing out
titles, raising armies, and so forth—but he could not reign. He had not
been consecrated, as Prince Duang discovered in the 1840s when the
Vietnamese withheld the regalia from him until they could extract
favorable peace terms from the Thai.
The monarch’s powers, then, although perhaps overstressed in the
written record, remained considerable in the eyes of the okya and among
the common people. The absence of a monarch was felt, at many points in
the society, perhaps more acutely than his presence on the throne.
CAMBODIA’S RELATIONS WITH VIETNAM
AND SIAM
As we have seen, the two most important characteristics of post-
Angkorean Cambodia were the shift in the country’s center of gravity from
Angkor to Phnom Penh, with the commercial and demographic
ramifications that the move implied and the roles played by the Thai and
Vietnamese. Nineteenth-century Cambodia, therefore, must be seen in
part against the background of its foreign relations.
These relations were carried out with two countries, Vietnam and
Siam, and occurred within a framework of rivalry between the two larger
kingdoms. Rivalry sprang from the unwillingness of either court to accept
the other as its equal or its superior. This unwillingness, in turn, can be
traced in part to the traditional language of tributary diplomacy, which
stressed the inequality between the sender and the recipient of tribute.
A major objective of Southeast Asian diplomacy in the nineteenth
century, indeed, was the ritualized expression of differential status through
the ceremonial exchange of gifts. The rules for these tributary exchanges
grew out of the particular system in which they occurred. The Thai and
the Vietnamese, for example, had separate ones, which overlapped inside
Cambodia.
Both systems owed a good deal to their counterpart in China,35 which
had been in effect since the third century BCE and was still in operation in
the 1800s. From a Cambodian point of view, the Thai variant was looser
and more idiosyncratic, for the Thai made allowances for local customs
and local products while the Vietnamese did not. The latter were rigid in
copying the Chinese model. In 1806, for example, Vietnamese Emperor
Gia Long, in choosing gifts to send to the Cambodian king, transmitted
facsimiles of the ones he had received, at the beginning of his own reign,
from the Chinese emperor. Some of these, such as “golden dragon paper
for imperial decrees  and Chinese bureaucratic costumes, were meaningless
to the Khmer. The seals of investiture sent from Hué to Udong were
irrelevant to Cambodians because they had camels carved on them, like the
seals that the Chinese court sent to tributary states in central Asia and,
incidentally, to Vietnam. One puzzled Cambodian chronicler referred to
the animal as a “Chinese lion. 36
From Vietnam’s point of view, Vietnam was above Cambodia, just as
China was above Vietnam. At the same time, of course, Cambodia was
below Vietnam and Vietnam was below China. In other words, Vietnam
was the master in one relationship and the servant in the other. As a
byproduct of this duality, the civilized goods sent from Hué to Udong
were facsimiles of those sent from Beijing to Hué, while the so-called
barbarian goods transmitted from Udong were the same sorts of products
that Vietnam transmitted to China.37
In the matter of tributary gifts, the Thai were more flexible than the
Vietnamese. The Chakri kings sent gifts to nineteenth-century
Cambodian kings that the recipients could recognize and use. In exchange
the Thai seem to have settled for whatever products they could get.
Sometimes Cambodia sent pepper, at other times lacquer and cardamom.
There is no evidence, however, that the Cambodians ever transmitted the
gold and silver ornamental trees (banga mas) that were a feature of tribute
to Bangkok from other dependent states.38
Similarly, the embassies that King Chan (r. 1797–1835) sent to
Bangkok and Hué obeyed different sets of rules, as embassies to Bangkok
were larger, more frequent, and more informal. The differences between
the two diplomatic systems paralleled differences in Thai and Vietnamese
official attitudes toward themselves, each other, and the Khmer. These
differences became crucial and painful for the Khmer in the 1830s, when
the Vietnamese emperor sought to administer Cambodia directly in a
Vietnamese way. From a Cambodian point of view, however, what
mattered about the Thai and Vietnamese tributary systems and attitudes
toward Cambodia was not that they were different and made different
sorts of demands but, rather, that they were condescending, overlapping,
and expensive.
Thai and Vietnamese official relations with each other, until they
soured in the 1820s, were marked by considerable informality.39 This arose
in part from a mutual unwillingness on the part of the Thai and the
Vietnamese to accept or impose authority on each other because they
enjoyed roughly similar power and prestige. The problem of hegemony did
not yet arise in their relations with the Khmer, and notions about the roles
both states should play in Cambodia were quite consistent. The barbarity
of the Cambodian people and the subservience of their king, for example,
were taken for granted, and so was the corollary that each superior state
had a sort of civilizing mission to carry out inside Cambodia. The rulers
saw themselves, in their official correspondence, as destined to supervise
the Khmer. As one Thai diplomatic letter put it, “It is fitting for large
countries to take care of smaller ones.  Others referred to Chan as an
“unruly child  and to the confluence of Thai and Vietnamese policies in
Cambodia as “fruit and seeds forming a single unit. 
Some of this language was a mask for realpolitik, but the images are
nonetheless suggestive. The language of diplomatic correspondence, like
the languages in everyday use in Southeast Asia, used pronouns that were
hierarchical and family-oriented, and relationships between states were
often described by using images of child rearing. In these the Thai and the
Vietnamese became the “father  and the “mother  of the Khmer, whose
king was referred to as their “child  or their “servant.  In the 1860s a
French official mused perceptively that Siam was Cambodia’s father
because its king gave names to the monarch, whereas Vietnam was seen to
be the mother because its rulers provided the Khmer with seals of office.40
Whatever the reasons, Thai and Vietnamese statements, like those made
later by the French, amounted to unilateral declarations of Cambodian
dependence. The family-oriented images were unjustified and far-fetched,
but they are a useful way of looking at the period—that is, as the
continuing struggle between increasingly incompatible parents for the
custody of a weak and often disobedient child.
Although Thai political ideas were often couched in Buddhist
terminology and Vietnamese ones in terms of a Sino-Vietnamese
Confucian tradition, Thai and Vietnamese objectives in Cambodia, seldom
voiced explicitly, were similar. Like the Nguyen, the Thai were eager to
extend their prestige along their frontiers and to amplify their self-images
as universally accepted kings. The Thai rulers also wanted to link
themselves as patrons of Buddhism to the chakravartin, or wheel-turning
monarchs, who had reigned for so many centuries at Ayudhya. These
ambitions led the rulers of both states to expand the land and people under
their control.
After 1810 King Chan and his advisers were swept up into a game of
power politics that they had little chance to change and no opportunity to
win. They had no choice. In Vietnamese terms, Cambodia was a fence, a
buffer state, and a dumping ground for colonists. To the Thai, the
Cambodians were fellow Buddhist children basking in a fund of Chakri
merit who could provide cardamom for the court and manpower for
Chakri wars. The Thai wanted the Cambodians to be loyal while the
Vietnamese wanted access to Cambodia’s land and, incidentally, the king’s
recognition of their superiority. The Thai demanded service and
friendship, but they were usually unable, given the way they organized
their armies and the distance between Bangkok and Phnom Penh, to
provide protection. The Vietnamese, on the other hand, provided
protection of a sort, but their actions led for a time to the disappearance of
Cambodia as an independent state. By different routes, then, the Thai and
the Vietnamese often accomplished the same things: they took over certain
sruk, they made hostages of the Cambodian ruler and his relations, and
they reduced the independence of the okya.
The outcome of this game was not obvious at first to Chan and his
advisers. In the early part of his reign, his alliance with Vietnam was
probably meant only to deflect some of the pressures on him from the
Thai. Letters between Bangkok, Udong, and Hué took so long that Chan
was able to buy time on several occasions by saying one thing to the Thai
and another to the Vietnamese. Moreover, for most of his reign he kept
his communications open with both capitals by means of the embassies he
sent them. In fact, Chan may well have been under the impression that the
equilibrium that prevailed in the early years of his reign was his own
creation and that he had more bargaining power with his patrons than he
really did. In this way, he resembled his younger brother’s great grandson,
Norodom Sihanouk, who ruled Cambodia in the 1950s and 1960s.
Even if the balance of forces and the inactivity of the Thai and the
Vietnamese reflected Thai and Vietnamese choices dictated by their own
perceptions of national interest, and even if Cambodia’s independence
reflected what were for the moment limited Thai and Vietnamese
ambitions rather than Cambodian skill, there were still advantages to
Chan in blurring the lines of his allegiance. One of the chronicles,
allegedly quoting Emperor Gia Long, makes this point quite clearly:
“Cambodia is a small country,  the Emperor
said. “And we should maintain it as a child. We
will be its mother; its father will be Siam. When
a child has trouble with its father, it can get rid
of suffering by embracing its mother. When the
child is unhappy with its mother, it can run to
its father for support. 41
Chan was not alone in playing this game. He was joined by his rivals in the
Cambodian royal family whose alternating loyalties led King Rama III of
Siam to write in the early 1840s, “The Cambodians always fight among
themselves in the matter of succession. The losers in these fights go off to
ask for help from a neighboring state; the winner must then ask for forces
from the other. 42
Chan’s freedom of action was illusory. He survived as king only so long
as one of his patrons and all of his rivals were inactive and so long as the
relatively active patron provided him with military help. When either
patron turned his attention fully to Cambodia, there was nothing Chan
could do to deflect the destruction that ensued. Like Prince Sihanouk in
the 1960s, or Pol Pot a decade later, Chan remained neutral as long as
stronger powers allowed him to be so. Chan suffered an additional
disadvantage in having no world leaders or world forums to turn to—no
Mao Zedong, no Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), and
no United Nations.
7
THE CRISIS OF THE NINETEENTH
CENTURY
The first sixty years of the nineteenth century form the darkest portion of
Cambodia’s recorded history prior to the Armageddon of the 1970s.
Invaded and occupied repeatedly by Thai and Vietnamese forces, the
kingdom also endured dynastic crises and demographic dislocations. For a
time in the 1840s, it ceased to exist as a recognizable state. Just as
Jayavarman VII’s totalizing ideology can be compared in some ways to the
ideology of Democratic Kampuchea, the first half of the nineteenth
century bears some resemblance to the 1970s in terms of foreign
intervention, chaos, and the sufferings of the Cambodian people.
Fortunately for historians, there is a wide range of sources to consult in
Thai, Cambodian, and Vietnamese. The record that the sources reveal,
however, is incomplete. For example, the ruler of Cambodia for much of
this period, King Chan, is rarely quoted in surviving sources, and none of
his own writings has survived; therefore, a crucial actor has no lines.
Similarly, Thai-language sources often thin out just when we might wish
to have more information about the politics of Thai foreign policy in the
period.
The period opens and closes with Thai-sponsored coronations.
Between these two events and particularly after 1810, invasions from
Vietnam and Siam alternated with internal rebellions and court-sponsored
resistance to invaders while the court, especially under Chan, pursued a
policy apparently aimed at preserving independence (or merely staying
alive) by playing the Thai and the Vietnamese against each other.
Although the political history of the period is reasonably clear, the politics
leading up to the events, and people’s motivations, are often difficult to
discern. The pattern that emerges is one in which Cambodia drifted first
away from Thai control then into the hands of the Vietnamese and finally
back to Thai protection. By the early 1840s, much of its territory, the
capital region in particular, was administered as a component of Vietnam.
Three events in the drift can be singled out for study. These are the Thai
absorption of northwestern Cambodia in the 1790s in exchange for putting
Eng on the throne, the anti-Vietnamese millenarian rebellion that broke
out in southeastern Cambodia in 1820, and the succession crisis of 1835
following a disastrous Thai military expedition. Each of these events
marked a stage in the process of Cambodia’s diminishing ability to control
its own affairs.
THE IMPOSITION OF VIETNAMESE
CONTROL
Eng’s restoration in 1794 is treated in the Cambodian chronicles as an
event of miraculous significance. When he left Bangkok, they assert, “the
sky did not grow dark, nor did rain fall, but thunder boomed in the noon
sky, making a noise like a mighty storm. 1 The restoration was indeed
dramatic, for in the preceding fifteen years Cambodia had not been
governed at all. A former official named Baen had been installed in Udong
by the Thai, had been given the title of ta-la-ha, or first minister, and had
busied himself with recruiting troops to fight the Tay Son Vietnamese
regime inside Cambodia and in Vietnam. In 1794, after so many years of
service, the Thai monarch Rama I seems to have felt obliged to reward
him in some way.
The reward he chose to bestow, however, was hardly his to give, as it
consisted of the large and prosperous sruk of Battambang and Mahanokor
(or “great city,  containing the ruins of Angkor). Baen had held power in
this region for part of the 1780s and probably retained a personal following
there, but in awarding the two sruk to him, Rama I removed them from
Eng’s jurisdiction without absorbing them into Siam. In the 1790s and for
most of the nineteenth century, Thai suzerainty seems to have meant only
that Baen and his successors were not obligated to provide laborers for Eng
and had to transmit gifts, generally of wild cardamom, to Bangkok from
time to time.
Details about the transfer are impossible to uncover, and perhaps
documents were never drawn up. In the 1860s, in fact, a French official in
Cambodia, seeking information about the Thai claims, reported to his
superiors that “Siam is unable to present any documentation about the
cession. The present king of Cambodia Eng’s grandson Norodom, his
officials, old men who have been consulted, and Eng’s widow, who is still
alive, are all of the opinion that none exists. 2
In the twentieth century, however, the loss of the two sruk did much to
poison Thai-Cambodian relations. Siam gave them up under pressure
from France in 1907 but resumed control over most of their territory from
1941 to 1946. In the context of the 1790s, however, it is unlikely that
Rama I was pursuing a long-range plan, and his grandson, Rama IV, put
the matter succinctly when he wrote that “the Thai kingdom was able to
enlarge itself [at this time] because it had the greater power. 3
After building himself a palace in Udong and visiting Bangkok with a
tributary mission in 1796, Eng died at the beginning of 1797. His reign
seems to have been been uneventful, and his contributions to Cambodian
history were almost inadvertent. By returning to Udong, which had been
without a king for so long, he brought Cambodia back to life. By fathering
four sons, he founded a dynasty that was to reign in Udong and Phnom
Penh until 1970 and which was revived in 1992. These two contributions,
rather than specific actions on his part, probably account for the reverence
with which he is treated in Cambodian chronicles compiled for his
descendants.
The next ten years, until his son Chan’s coronation in 1806, are poorly
documented. But for reasons that remain unclear, the young prince became
alienated from the Thai court at some point and seems to have begun to
formulate a pro-Vietnamese foreign policy. Whatever its causes—Thai
sources hint at a feud between the young prince and Rama I—Chan’s anti-
Thai orientation is a persistent theme of his long reign.4
As soon as he had been crowned, for example, he hastened to
strengthen Cambodia’s tributary connections with Vietnam while
maintaining his subservience to Bangkok, becoming in the words of the
Vietnamese emperor “an independent country that is the slave of two. 5
The process was even more complicated, for Chan’s increasing animosity
toward the Thai alienated some of his own chaovay sruk, especially in the
northwest, and his personal insecurity is indicated by his request to the
Vietnamese emperor at about this time that he be allowed to recruit
Vietnamese residents of Cambodia to form his personal bodyguard. The
pace of his alienation from Bangkok accelerated after Rama I’s death in
1809. Chan refused to attend the cremation, and when two officials who
had attended the ceremony showed signs of being pro-Thai, Chan had
them put to death.
In 1811–12, conflict broke out inside Cambodia between Thai and
Vietnamese expeditionary forces. The Thai supported one of Chan’s
dissident brothers; the Vietnamese responded to Chan’s requests for help.
All three of Chan’s brothers fled to Bangkok at this time, leaving him free
for the rest of his reign to pursue a pro-Vietnamese policy, even though
the campaigns of 1811–12 were indecisive. Their net effect was to reduce
Chan’s freedom of action, as his growing dependence on the Vietnamese
was greater than his former allegiance, so reluctantly given, to Bangkok.
Twice a month, wearing Vietnamese bureaucratic costumes supplied from
the Vietnamese capital at Hué, the king and his entourage had to visit a
Vietnamese temple near Phnom Penh, where the capital had been moved
in 1812, and bow before a tablet bearing the Vietnamese emperor’s name.
Over the next twenty years, Chan fought with decreasing success to
achieve a measure of independence.
Three events stand out from these early years of relatively loose
Vietnamese control. These are the unsuccessful Cambodian attack on the
northwestern sruk in 1816; the excavation of the Vinh Te Canal in
southern Vietnam, using Cambodian labor, around 1820; and the anti-
Vietnamese uprising that broke out soon afterward in southeastern
Cambodia and in Khmer-populated portions of Vietnam.
The military expedition of 1816 was the last attempt before the 1970s
by a formally constituted Cambodian army to take the offensive against
foreign troops, and it was a failure. Perhaps to placate the Thai, or merely
because the campaign had failed, Vietnamese authorities in Phnom Penh
asked Chan to discipline the okya who had led the expedition. Taken to
Saigon afterward, the official was reprimanded and fined. The sequence of
events, insignificant in itself, epitomizes Chan’s helplessness in the face of
Vietnamese pressure.
The Vinh Te Canal, in turn, later became a symbol of Vietnamese
mistreatment of the Khmer, and the rebellion that followed its excavation
revealed the depth of anti-Vietnamese feeling in the sruk, the persistence
of millenarianism, and perhaps the ambiguities in Chan’s subservience to
the Vietnamese.6 In 1817, Vietnamese officials in Saigon recruited several
thousand Vietnamese and a thousand Cambodian workers to excavate, or
perhaps merely to restore, the Vinh Te Canal that ran between the Gulf of
Siam and the fortified citadel of Chaudoc, a distance of perhaps forty
kilometers (twenty-five miles). According to a Cambodian chronicle
written in the 1850s, work on the canal was arduous in the extreme:
“Workers were divided into groups. One Vietnamese marched at the head
of each group, another at the back, and a third in the middle. The
Vietnamese would beat the Cambodians on the back, to make them hurry.
. . . Everyone was exhausted, and covered with mud. 7
This account of the excavations is followed immediately in the text by
an account of an anti-Vietnamese rebellion placed by other sources in
1820–21. This suggests a causal relationship between the two events,
which is reinforced by the fact that the revolt broke out fairly close to the
site of the canal. This site was Ba Phnom, the small mountain in
southeastern Cambodia that has sometimes been identified with
Jayavarman II’s rise to power in the late eighth century. In the nineteenth
century it was an important population center and also a religious site.8
The Ba Phnom revolt was led by a former monk named Kai, who claimed
to be a holy man capable of making predictions. As he gathered allegedly
invulnerable supporters around him, he forged a political movement.
Moving north and west from the vicinity of Ba Phnom, his followers
attacked Vietnamese military posts. A mixed Khmer-Vietnamese force
sent against him by Chan failed, one source asserts, because the okya in
charge of it deserted with their troops and turned on the Vietnamese. A
purely Vietnamese force sent from Saigon, however, eventually defeated
the rebels near Kompong Cham. The leaders were executed in Saigon, and
some of their followers were beheaded in Phnom Penh.
The differences between Cambodian and Vietnamese accounts of the
rebellion pose interesting questions, such as where Chan’s loyalties lay.
Chan may have known Kai as a monk in Phnom Penh, and in any case the
king, whom the Vietnamese were to find “extremely superstitious  toward
the end of his reign, would probably not have moved vigorously against a
Khmer believed to have supernatural powers. Whatever Chan’s views
might have been, his response to the rebellion had to be restricted and
discreet. There are parallels here with the situation that faced his nephew,
King Norodom, in 1884 when an anti-French rebellion led by okya broke
out in the countryside while Norodom was under French protection in
Phnom Penh. Similar problems confronted Norodom’s great-grandson,
Norodom Sihanouk, in turn, in the 1950s and confronted the successor
regime again in 1970–75.9
It is unclear how large the rebellion was or how much of a threat it
posed in military and territorial terms; we know little about its goals
beyond the assassination of Vietnamese. Vietnamese records
understandably play down its importance; the locally oriented bangsavatar
probably exaggerates its extent, momentum, and success. All the sources
agree, however, that it was directed against the Vietnamese rather than
against Chan and his okya and that those monks, former monks, and local
officials were active in its ranks.
The chronicle version composed in the 1850s tended to confirm its
audience’s ideas about themselves, the Vietnamese, and history. All
Vietnamese were described as cruel, while “people of merit  (nak sel) were
powerful, and Khmer could not (or at least should not) be made to fight
against Khmer. The Buddhist orientation of the text can be seen when we
learn that the nak sel’s followers were rendered invincible by prayers and
amulets but lost this invincibility when they acted contrary to Buddhist law
by killing people themselves. Without the special powers connected with
nonviolence, the rebels, including former monks, were all slaughtered.
When they died, “Rain fell for seven days. It fell without stopping, night
and day. The unimportant and the mighty were forced to run for shelter.
In the cold air, everybody shook. There was no way of knowing when the
sun set or when it rose. The nation was unhappy. 10
It would be difficult to exaggerate the atmosphere of threat, physical
danger, and random violence that pervades primary sources like this one
and perhaps much of everyday life in nineteenth-century Cambodia. The
sources are filled with references to torture, executions, ambushes,
massacres, village burnings, and the forced movement of populations. The
wars of the time were localized rather than national in scope, and
expeditionary forces, which usually numbered only a few thousand men,
were small by twentieth-century standards. At the same time, invaders and
defenders destroyed the villages they came to, killed or uprooted anyone
they met, and ruined the landscape that they moved across. Very few
prisoners of war were taken or kept alive. A seventeenth-century
Cambodian law, translated by Adhémard Leclère, stated that an
expeditionary force needed only three days’ supply of food because
unfriendly populations that could be robbed were thought to be never
more than three days’ march away.11 Parallels to the civil war that
devastated Cambodia in the 1970s, and to the behavior of both sides, are
obvious.
Cambodian landscape, 2006. Photograph by Tom Chandler.
One enigma in this period is Chan himself. We know very little about
him except that he was timid. A Vietnamese text from 1822 states that he
was ill much of the time and kept inside his palace.12 The Vietnamese
emperor wrote of him in 1834, just before his death, that a “fresh wind or
the cry of a bird could make him flee. 13 At the same time, Chan retained
considerable freedom of maneuver. All through the 1820s he kept his lines
of communication with Bangkok open. Tributary missions went to
Bangkok every year, and Chan may have used them to provide intelligence
to Thai officials, to sound out Thai policies, and to remain in contact with
his brothers.
Relations between the two kingdoms broke down in the late 1820s as a
result of Vietnamese support for an anti-Thai rebellion that erupted in
1824–25 around Vientiane. The breakdown also sprang from the fact that
the rulers in Hué and Bangkok in the 1830s, Rama III and Minh Mang,
unlike their fathers, owed nothing to each other and were free to pursue
vigorous foreign policies, one of which was to increase influence, and
therefore to court conflict, over Cambodia. Minh Mang was also
suspicious of the Vietnamese viceroy in Cambodia, Le Van Duyet, whom
he believed—correctly, as things turned out—to be associated with
breakaway sentiment in southern Vietnam.14
The Thai made some tentative military probes into western Cambodia
in 1830–31, but Rama III saw no chance of success until Duyet’s death in
1832. When Minh Mang attempted to replace the viceroy’s entourage
with officials loyal to Hué, his move ignited a full-scale rebellion that was
centered on Saigon and led by Duyet’s adopted son.
When news of the revolt reached Rama III, he decided to assemble an
expeditionary force. He saw several advantages in doing so. He could
humiliate Minh Mang, whose forces had been tangentially involved in the
Vientiane rebellion and elsewhere in the Thai tributary states of Laos. By
seeking to establish a new tributary state in southern Vietnam, moreover,
Rama III may have been planning to extend Thai and Sino-Thai
commercial interests and to profit directly from trade between
Saigon/Cholon and southern China, for Chinese merchants in Vietnam
had supported the rebellion and had informed their counterparts in
Bangkok. Finally, the Thai king may have been impressed by reports
reaching him from Cambodia that many okya would now welcome the
return of Chan’s two brothers, Im and Duang (the third brother had died
in Bangkok in 1825). The time was ripe, in Rama III’s own words, “to
restore the kingdom of Cambodia and to punish the insolence of
Vietnam. 15
In the short run the campaign was a success. The Vietnamese quickly
abandoned Phnom Penh and took Chan into exile in Vietnam. The Thai
commander, Chaophraya (roughly, “Lord ) Bodin, then occupied the
capital, but poor communications with the naval forces attached to the
expedition, which were supposed to attack the Vietnamese coast,
combined with Vietnamese attacks soon forced him to withdraw in early
1834.16
The Thai political strategy of placing Im and Duang in power also
failed because the two were unable to attract support. One chronicle, in
fact, describes popular confusion early in the war, as Bodin’s forces entered
the kingdom:
The people were surprised to see such a large
army, and they shook with fear. The head of the
army shouted at them: “Don’t be afraid! His
royal highness the king [sic] has arrived to rule
over you.  The people murmured about this,
and sent messengers off to inform the king [i.e.,
Chan] in Phnom Penh.17
In Bodin’s retreat from Phnom Penh, approximately four thousand local
people were carried off. Of these, perhaps a thousand managed to escape
as the overburdened Thai column reached Udong. These people then
“wandered trembling and afraid in the deep woods. 18 As the Thai
columns moved north and west, they disintegrated, and at about this time
the rebellion in Saigon was finally suppressed.
THE VIETNAMIZATION OF CAMBODIA, 1835–
40
When Chan returned to his battered, abandoned capital early in 1834, he
found himself under more stringent Vietnamese control. Thai successes in
their overland offensive had shown Minh Mang that he could not rely on
the Khmer to provide a fence for his southern and western borders, and
with the defeat of the rebellion he now moved to intensify and consolidate
his control. To head this civilizing mission, he named the general who had
crushed the rebellion in Saigon, Truong Minh Giang.
Giang needed Chan and his officials to provide the Vietnamese with
labor, rice, and soldiers. Chan seems to have needed the Vietnamese
somewhat less in material terms, but probably counted on them to protect
him from assassination and revolt. Like later outsiders operating in
Cambodia, Giang probably expected too much from the king and okya.
Before 1834 was over, he reported pessimistically to Hué that
we have tried to punish and reward the
Cambodian officials according to their merits
and demerits. We have asked the king to help
us, but he has hesitated to do so. After studying
the situation, we have decided that Cambodian
officials only know how to bribe and be bribed.
Offices are sold; nobody carries out orders;
everyone works for his own account. When we
tried to recruit soldiers, the king was perfectly
willing, but the officials concealed great
numbers of people. When we wanted to compile
a list of meritorious officials, [the officials were
willing, but] the king was unwilling, because he
was jealous. For the last four months, nothing
has been accomplished.19
Giang’s impatience was understandable, for Cambodian politics at the
time (and perhaps through much of its history, as we have seen) was
characterized by a diffusion of power, a shortage of resources, and a
negotiability of position that effectively kept anyone from becoming
powerful for very long. That Cambodians should hesitate to accomplish
tasks for the Vietnamese struck Giang as insulting, even treacherous, but
Minh Mang urged him to do the best he could with the human materials
at hand.
Bodin, in the meantime, had settled his forces in the Siameseadministered
northwest. As the 1830s wore on, the Thai increased their
military presence in Battambang and Siem Reap, placing Im and Duang in
ambiguous administrative control, presumably to attract indigenous
support against the Vietnamese. This program was matched to the south
and east by an intensive program of Vietnamization, which affected many
aspects of Cambodian life. The program was set in motion in 1834 and
played itself out under the threat of Thai invasions for the rest of the
1830s, the last years of Minh Mang’s reign.
An early victim of Vietnamization was Chan himself. Toward the end
of 1834, according to the Vietnamese annals, he came under the influence
of “magicians  who allegedly encouraged him to accept bribes and “let
criminals out of jail. 20 In a sense, the so-called magicians were merely
asking Chan to act like a traditional king, but their influence distressed
Truong Minh Giang, who had them arrested and shot. For Chan himself,
the end of his struggle to stay alive and to provide for himself and his
people a measure of independence had arrived. In early 1835, after a
month’s illness, he died aboard his royal barge, moored opposite his ruined
palace in Phnom Penh. He was forty-four years old, and he had reigned, in
one way or another, for nearly forty years.
Chan’s death posed problems for the Vietnamese for he had no sons
and his eldest daughter, Princess Baen, was suspected of being pro-Thai.
Soon after his death, the okya agreed to a Vietnamese suggestion that
Chan’s second daughter, Princess Mei, be named queen. To officiate at
her investiture, Minh Mang sent a Vietnamese official from Saigon, and in
a hall built specially for the purpose, Mei and her sisters faced north,
toward the emperor’s letter authorizing her to reign, while the Vietnamese
delegate and other officials faced south, as the emperor always did in his
palace in Hué.21
The ceremony bore no resemblance to a traditional Cambodian
coronation, but from the Cambodians’ point of view, the queen’s ability to
grant titles and bestow official seals (as well as to officiate at royal
ceremonies) meant that she was their queen.22 To the Vietnamese, who
treated her as the ceremonial leader of a protectorate, these aspects of the
question were unimportant when compared to the administrative reforms
that Truong Minh Giang, at the emperor’s request, was now ready to
impose. Whereas previously the Vietnamese fort at Phnom Penh had been
called Annam, or “Pacified South,  the city itself and the surrounding
countryside were now renamed Tran Tay, or “Western Commandery, and
Sino-Vietnamese names were given to all of Cambodia’s sruk. Day-to-day
administrative decisions, including personnel postings, salaries, military
affairs, and the control of rice surpluses, were placed in Vietnamese hands,
and some sixteen officials, seventy clerks, and ten schoolmasters were sent
to Phnom Penh to form the core of an infrastructure for the
administration. Until 1839–40, however, the administration of the sruk,
including the all-important matter of labor mobilization, was left to the
okya, who still operated with royal seals even though their appointments
were cleared through the Vietnamese.
Minh Mang’s policy of Vietnamizing Cambodia had several facets. He
sought to mobilize and arm the Khmer, to colonize the region with
Vietnamese, and to reform the habits of the people. He also tried for
military reasons to standardize patterns of measurement, mobilization, and
food supply. Control of the adult male population and the formation of a
standing army, if possible, to resist the Thai was the essential ingredient of
all the Vietnamese programs. Problems of recruitment arose because many
of the okya were unwilling to relinquish control over their followers. The
Vietnamese soon found, in fact, that Cham mercenaries were the only
troops they could recruit.
Because ethnic Khmer caused so many problems for administration,
Minh Mang sought to colonize the region with Vietnamese. He justified
this policy on the grounds that “military convicts and ordinary prisoners, if
kept in jail, would prove useless. Therefore, it would be better for them to
be sent to Cambodia and live among the people there, who would benefit
from their teaching.  The idea that Vietnamese criminals were superior to
innocent Khmer was another aspect of Vietnam’s “civilizing mission  in
Cambodia.23
Indeed, Vietnamese policies toward Cambodia in the 1830s
foreshadowed the French mission civilisatrice (“civilizing mission ) that
was, during the colonial era, to weaken and dismantle so many Vietnamese
institutions. In a lengthy memorial to Truong Minh Giang, the emperor
outlined his policy:
The barbarians [in Cambodia] have become my
children now, and you should help them, and
teach them our customs. . . . I have heard, for
example, that the land is plentiful and fertile,
and that there are plenty of oxen [for plowing] .
. . but the people have no knowledge of
[advanced] agriculture, using picks and hoes,
rather than oxen. They grow enough rice for
two meals a day, but they don’t store any
surplus. Daily necessities like cloth, silk, ducks
and pork are very expensive. . . . Now all these
shortcomings stem from the laziness of the
Cambodians . . . and my instructions to you are
these; teach them to use oxen, teach them to
grow more rice, teach them to raise mulberry
trees, pigs and ducks. . . . As for language, they
should be taught to speak Vietnamese. [Our
habits of] dress and table manners must also be
followed. If there is any out-dated or barbarous
custom that can be simplified, or repressed, then
do so.24
The emperor closed by advising Giang to move cautiously in engineering
social change. “Let the good ideas seep in,  he wrote, “turning the
barbarians into civilized people. 25 Speed was not essential. “As for
winning the hearts of the people, and teaching them, we plan to do this
rather slowly. 26 In a subsequent memorial, the emperor recognized that
even this slow process might never succeed, because “the customs of the
barbarians are so different from our own that even if we were to capture all
their territory, it would not be certain we could change them. 27
There is no record of Vietnamese success in altering Cambodian
agricultural techniques, although the need to do so was a recurrent theme
in their correspondence of the 1830s. Likewise, Vietnamese efforts to
quantify and systematize landholdings, tax payments, and irrigation works
came to little. What impressed the Khmer about the Vietnamese, it seems,
were their persistent demands for corvée labor and their cultural reforms,
which struck at the root of Khmer notions of their own identity. One of
these was the order that Khmer put on trousers instead of skirts and that
they wear their hair long rather than close-cropped. Other “barbarous 
Cambodian customs, according to a Vietnamese writer, included wearing
robes without slits up the sides, using loincloths, eating with the fingers,
and greeting from a kneeling position rather than from an upright one.28
The two peoples lived on different sides of a cultural divide, perhaps one of
the most sharply defined of those in effect in nineteenth-century Southeast
Asia. This divide was to be savagely exploited in the 1970s, first by Lon
Nol and later by Pol Pot.29
Within his own ideological framework, Minh Mang tried hard to be
informed about Cambodia, to be fair to its people, and to improve their
way of life. There are several references to rewards given Cambodian
officials at his behest for meritorious service. On one occasion, he asked
that a history of the country be sent to him, because, among other things,
the Khmer “have been a nation for over 1,200 years, but we do not know
precisely what year they began, in terms of the Vietnamese and Chinese
dynasties that were then reigning. 30 Earlier, the emperor had asked
Truong Minh Giang to send him detailed information about Cambodia’s
customs, people, and agricultural produce. I
want to know whether the people are
prosperous, and whether or not the Cambodian
militia has been trained. I also want to know if
the barbarian people have learned Vietnamese
ways, and if they are happy.31
In another memorial, Minh Mang outlined plans for replacing Cambodian
chaovay sruk with Vietnamese, beginning with sruk close to Phnom Penh.
In 1839 he was annoyed to hear that the okya continued to use Cambodian
rather than Vietnamese official titles:
At Tran Tay [the emperor said] Cambodian
officials have all been given titles from my court.
However, I understand that in correspondence
and conversation they still use Cambodian titles.
. . . The Cambodians should be told that it is an
honor to have titles bestowed on them by this
court. In conversation, therefore, they should
use our titles, rather than theirs.32
Chan’s brother Duang had been living in Battambang for several years
under Thai protection, and an obscure sequence of events in 1837
culminated in his arrest by the Thai and his return in chains to Bangkok.
The sources suggest that Vietnamese emissaries from Phnom Penh had
tried to lure him down to the capital with promises that he would be given
the throne. Duang’s replies to them were so ambiguous as to convince both
the Thai and the Vietnamese that he intended to betray them, using okya
in the capital region to gather supporters in an effort to regain Chan’s
somewhat dubious independence.33
In the meantime, the growing apprehension of the Vietnamese about
Thai mobilization, and the slow progress of their own reforms, led them to
tighten their administrative machinery in Cambodia. Anti-Vietnamese
uprisings in 1837–39 were both a cause and an effect of these reforms.
According to the Vietnamese annals, there were four parts to their revised
strategy. The most innovative one was to redraw the sruk and to replace
indigenous chaovay throughout the country with Vietnamese. In making
selections for these posts (never actually filled, it seems), the Vietnamese
ministries were urged to find “about twenty  low-ranking officials, whose
educational attainments were less important than their agricultural
experience and their talent as military leaders. The second element of the
policy was to open more plantations, to train more indigenous soldiers, and
to store more rice in an attempt to free the Vietnamese and mercenary
garrisons from dependence on southern Vietnam. Third, the Cambodians
were to be taught Vietnamese so as to “improve communications.  Finally,
the Vietnamese were to encourage further colonization of Cambodia by
Chinese immigrants and Vietnamese convicts, even though Truong Minh
Giang had pointed out the dangers of this policy at great length in a
memorial to Minh Mang earlier in the year.
These reforms led the Thai chronicles to refer to Minh Mang’s naming
the Khmer “new Vietnamese. 34 The Vietnamese saw nothing harmful in
this, any more than they did in the “civilizing  Cambodian weights,
measures, fashions, and coiffures. Of the innovations, the one aimed at
replacing the chaovay sruk probably had the most to do with the rebellion
that broke out against the Vietnamese in 1840–41. It is significant that the
okya, when attacked in this fashion, could easily rally followers to defend
the status quo rather than what might well have been a more equitable and
forward-looking Vietnamese administration. There are interesting parallels
here with the opposition to the People’s Republic of Kampuchea (PRK)
administration in the 1980s.35
In December 1839, Prince Im, favored by the Thai since his brother’s
imprisonment, defected to Phnom Penh with several thousand men,
mistakenly convinced that the Vietnamese intended to place him on the
Cambodian throne. When he reached the capital, he was arrested by
Truong Minh Giang and taken off to Saigon and Hué, thus removing
from the scene yet another contender for the throne.36
One Thai response to these events, when they heard of them in early
1840, was to install a military garrison in Battambang. When Chaophraya
Bodin reached the city to investigate Im’s defection, he found that of three
hundred Cambodians with some sort of official standing in the sruk, nearly
two hundred had fled. Uncertain about local support, he postponed his
plans for a full-scale invasion of Cambodia.37
The rebellion against the Vietnamese that broke out in September and
October 1840 had reached the planning stage in May. Intermittent
uprisings, in fact, had broken out every year since 1836, and deteriorating
conditions in Cambodia, as we have seen, had led Minh Mang to tighten
Vietnamese administration. One of his steps was to improve the collection
of taxes. Traditionally, these had been collected through the okya; however,
the amount of tax, paid in rice and cloth, had never been sufficient to
support the Vietnamese troops and officials in the country. In an 1840
decree, Minh Mang ordered that Cambodia’s arable land be remeasured
and that records be maintained concerning rainfall, granaries, and
irrigation works so that Vietnamese operations in Cambodia could pay for
themselves. He had been making similar demands for six years, he added,
but little had been achieved.38
By June 1840, Minh Mang’s patience was exhausted. He demoted Mei
and her two sisters, giving them low ranks in the Vietnamese civil service.
Following the demotion the six highest-ranking okya, including the ta-laha,
were placed under arrest and taken off to Saigon, accused of falsifying
census records and “hiding  some fifteen thousand people otherwise liable
for militia duty and corvée.39 This was done in secret, and their followers
assumed that they were dead. Their disappearance was one of the most
significant causes of the revolt.
Indeed, the failure of the Vietnamese to impose a workable pattern of
administration in Cambodia was connected with their willingness, in the
early years at least, to work through the okya, whose loyalty to them was
intermittent at best and whose operating styles—based on fear, arrogance,
patronage, local ties, and loyalties to relatives and other officials—were
neither sympathetic nor conducive to a Vietnamese administration. Most
of the okya were happy enough, it seems, to accept rewards occasionally
from the Vietnamese. They showed no eagerness to become Confucian
civil servants. By working with them, the Vietnamese accomplished few of
their objectives, but as Vietnamese measures added up in large part to a
policy of laissez-faire, most of the okya had no reason to take up arms
against them.
When they took over the administration of the sruk themselves in
1840, however, the Vietnamese reached the point at which they could
impose their will at the same time that their actions perhaps inevitably
ignited a revolt. With a Thai invasion imminent, however, and the failure
of the okya to perceive that Vietnamese economic and military interests in
Cambodia overlapped their own, the Vietnamese had little choice, unless
they were to abandon Cambodia altogether. Minh Mang’s policies failed
because he was unable to understand the intransigence or ingratitude of
the “barbarians  in the face of paternally administered social change. In a
decree to the Cambodian people in 1838, he had stressed the irrationality
of this ingratitude:
Thanks to . . . my generosity, imperial troops
were dispatched to Cambodia, costing millions
of coins, and brought you security by destroying
the Thai. Troops were stationed [among you] to
bring peace. This action was like bringing the
Cambodian people out of the mud onto a warm
feather bed, and was well-known by everyone. . .
. Anyone who can think for himself should be
grateful to the court; why are there people who
hate us and believe the rebels?40
The situation became worse in September 1840, when a wide-ranging
rebellion broke out. The uprising, which was centered in the eastern and
southern sruk, is a rare example in prerevolutionary Cambodia of sustained
and coordinated political action; the only others that spring to mind are
the anti-French rebellion of 1885–86 and the so-called 1916 Affair (see
Chapters 8 and 9). Smarting under Vietnam’s civilizing mission, the okya
had discussed the idea of rebellion among themselves for several months,
in letters known today by their dates, addresses, and general contents; the
letters themselves do not seem to have survived.41 What set the rebellion
in motion was an interlocking set of provocations by the Vietnamese
together with Cambodian expectations of a Thai invasion and Thai
support. The uprising collapsed in the early months of 1841, when a new
emperor in Vietnam and the Thai invasion the insurgents had hoped for
coincided with Vietnamese military successes and the rebel shortage of
supplies. The rest of the early 1840s was filled with seesawing warfare and
negotiations between the Thai and the Vietnamese and by a gradual shift
in the balance of power in Cambodia in favor of the Thai.
The immediate cause of the rebellion, from the standpoint of the okya,
was a sequence of Vietnamese actions that seemed to the okya to be aimed
at extinguishing kingship, Buddhism, and the official class in Cambodia.
The sequence began with the demotion of the princesses and the
reshuffling of Vietnamese officials in Phnom Penh. It continued in June
1840 when Minh Mang instituted a Vietnamese taxation system. This
made new demands on the okya by taxing additional products, such as fruit
and vegetables, and by calling for a new census, cadastral surveys, and
reports on water resources.
Another part of the Vietnamese program was to call in Cambodian
seals of office in at least some of the sruk, replacing them with Vietnamese
ones that carried no indication of rank. At least one rural official was
dismissed at this time for corruption, and rumors spread among the okya
that all officials would soon be arrested by the Vietnamese.
The climax came in August when the Vietnamese arrested Mei and her
sisters in Phnom Penh. The women were lured aboard a barge after their
immediate entourage had been softened up with liquor and a performance
of Vietnamese opera; at this point, according to an eyewitness, “every time
they talked they laughed and everyone was happy.  The princesses were
taken off to Vietnam, and Cambodia’s regalia, which Mei had inherited
from her father, accompanied them. At this time, the okya in Phnom Penh
and the sruk, with rumors and the Vietnamese record toward Cambodians
to rely on, assumed that Ta-la-ha Lung, his associates, and the four
princesses had been killed, and they thought they were next.
To many Cambodians, the disappearance of their monarch, however
restricted her authority and charisma might have been, signified the
disappearance of the state. The absence of regalia with which to legitimize
someone else made the situation worse. For the okya, the disappearance of
their high-ranking patrons at court, the reformed tax system, the
devaluation of seals of office, and the Vietnamese assault on their freedom
of action were precipitants of revolt. Vietnamese “rational  actions,
supposedly beneficial to the Khmer, struck at the roots of the identity of
the okya and at their concepts of society as a whole. Vietnamese contempt
for Theravada Buddhism and for Cambodia’s language, culture, and
institutions also hastened the decision of the okya to revolt.
The uprising was concentrated at first along the east bank of the
Mekong but soon spread to Vietnamese settlements along the coast, like
Ream and Kampot, to parts of southern Vietnam inhabited by Khmer, and
to fortified villages inland. The news of the princesses’ disappearance
seems to have triggered the revolt, and the rebels’ goal at this stage was the
restoration of the status quo ante, personified by Mei and the exiled
officials. Another objective, apparently, was the mere killing of
Vietnamese. As one rebel wrote, “We are happy killing Vietnamese. We
no longer fear them; in all our battles we are mindful of the three jewels [of
Buddhism]: the Buddha, the law, and the monastic community. 42
The Vietnamese were surprised by the level of coordination among the
okya and blamed it on Thai influences, which Thai sources fail to confirm.
They were also baffled by the absence of a single leader. Their estimate of
rebel strength ran to thirty thousand men operating throughout the
kingdom in “hundreds of  small bands and occasionally larger ones, usually
in territory familiar to them and commanded by people they could trust.
The formidable problems of counterguerrilla warfare were summed up in
one Vietnamese report in 1841:
The rebels have established posts along the
riverbanks at strategic points. They appear and
disappear at will. If our troops look to the east,
the rebels escape to the west. . . . They
concentrate their forces where the jungle is
thick, and in swampy areas where our troops
cannot maneuver. Other regions have tall grass
at eye-level and are very hot and dusty. One can
march all day without finding potable water.
Moreover, we have no intelligence about the
enemy, and no guides.43
The Vietnamese also had problems moving troops and supplies against
the river currents prevalent at that time of year, and the report adds that
“not even one  rebel had surrendered, despite the “tolerant  policies of the
Vietnamese court and even though the record is full of references to the
Khmer fleeing like “rats and mice,  or attacking like “swarms of
mosquitoes.  At the start of the rebellion, Minh Mang (who was to die
following an accident at the beginning of 1841) thought that an adequate
application of force, combined with rewards to loyal troops and local
officials, would be enough to put down the rebellion, which angered him,
he wrote, so much that his “hair stood on end. 44 He ordered Ta-la-ha
Lung and others to write letters asking their relatives and clients in
Cambodia to surrender, thus misreading Cambodian loyalty to unavailable
and devalued patrons, and he also approved sending “monks and
magicians  into Phnom Penh to undermine morale. In the last months of
his reign, he demanded weekly reports from the front and suggested that
Cambodian crops and orchards be burned down as a preemptive measure.
“The Cambodians are so stupid,  he declared, “that we must frighten
them. Ordinary moral suasion has no effect. 45
It is impossible to say what Minh Mang would have done had he
survived the next seven years, but it is clear that the rebellion had begun to
lose momentum before his death and also that his successor, Thieu Tri,
was less committed than he had been to a victory in Cambodia.46 The new
emperor began his reign looking for a solution that would be acceptable to
his court and to the Cambodians, if not necessarily to the Thai; at one
stage, he brushed aside a suggestion that he negotiate directly with the
Thai as being “wrong and foolish.  Distance, distrust, and the momentum
of the war, however, as well as the ambiguity of Thieu Tri’s objectives in
Cambodia, kept the conflict going until 1847.
Cambodian troops were often poorly supplied. At the end of 1840, a
rebel okya complained to the Thai that “we are unable to continue fighting
the Vietnamese. We lack the troops to do so, the rifles, the ammunition,
and the supplies. For weapons we have only knives, crossbows, and clubs;
we cannot continue to fight. 47
SIAM AND THE RESTORATION OF
CAMBODIAN INDEPENDENCE
As the Vietnamese court and its officials in Cambodia sought a solution to
what they saw as an internal Vietnamese problem, Chaophraya Bodin’s
expeditionary force, numbering thirty-five thousand men, assembled near
Battambang and then attacked and defeated the Vietnamese garrison at
Pursat. Bodin was prepared to attack the capital but hesitated because he
was short of supplies and lacked confidence in his troops. Instead he
withdrew to Battambang, where he sought to consolidate his political
position. During the siege of Pursat, eighteen rebellious okya had written
him pleading for Thai support and for Duang’s return from Bangkok.48
The okya pledged allegiance to Rama III, complained about shortages of
supplies, and asserted that Cambodians would be happy only if the
political conditions of the early nineteenth century, before the Vietnamese
had arrived, were reestablished.
Bodin transmitted the letter to Bangkok and added a recommendation
for Duang’s release from custody and his return to political power. In
January 1841 Duang reached Battambang, accompanied by Thai and
Cambodian advisers and carrying gifts for his supporters, including
insignia of rank and royal accoutrements provided for him by Rama III.49
According to one source, Bodin had urged Duang’s release because “if
there are no superior people to look after a population, the common people
have no security. 50 The records also suggest that Bodin’s motives included
winning over the okya (he was eager that local Khmer, rather than his own
inexperienced troops, should engage the Vietnamese) by promising them
that Duang would rule over Cambodia. For the rest of the 1840s, Duang
was to be closely watched and manipulated by Bodin. His return to
Cambodia and Rama III’s solicitude for him opened an era in Thai-
Cambodian relations that lasted until French intervention in 1863.
While Duang was conferring with potential courtiers and Bodin was
complaining that the newcomers were consuming Thai supplies, Thieu Tri
was attempting to understand and control Vietnamese policy toward
Cambodia, with a view to thwarting a Thai invasion, pacifying rebellious
provinces of southern Vietnam, and maintaining Vietnamese prestige. In
late 1841 Truong Minh Giang attempted once again to bring Prince Im to
power, but edicts issued in his name attracted no support. It was at this
point, perhaps, that Truong Minh Giang realized that he had almost no
chance of restoring a favorable political balance in Cambodia. He
withdrew to Vietnam, taking with him Im, the princesses, and the
population of the city, numbering some six thousand people. When he
arrived in Vietnam, he sent a letter to Hué in which he took the blame for
“losing  Cambodia, which he referred to as the emperor’s “rightful
property.  He then took poison and died.51
The Vietnamese failure, however, did not mean that the Thai had
succeeded, and by 1843 Cambodia had become a quagmire for
Chaophraya Bodin. As he wrote Bangkok, “We have been in Cambodia
for three years without accomplishing anything. We are short of supplies;
people are going off into the forest to live on leaves and roots; and nearly a
thousand men in our army have died from lack of food. 52 In 1844 he had
to abandon Phnom Penh, where the Vietnamese soon reinstalled Princess
Mei as Cambodia’s “legitimate queen  while Thai forces congregated near
Udong. The Vietnamese maneuver infuriated Bodin, who saw that many
okya might now be unwilling to support the Thai. He complained to
Bangkok that “all the Khmer leaders and nobles, all the district chiefs and
all the common people are ignorant, stupid, foolish and gullible. They have
no idea what is true and what is false. 53
In spite of these difficulties, Vietnamese attempts to dislodge the Thai
forces around Udong throughout 1845 were fruitless. By the end of the
year the Thai and Vietnamese had opened negotiations for a cease-fire.
The talks moved forward, for they were grounded in Thieu Tri’s
willingness to abandon his military positions in Cambodia and, by
implication, his father’s policies there. They moved slowly, however, in a
context of military stalemate even though, in political terms, conditions
were favorable to the Thai. In Prince Duang they had a seasoned, popular
ruler, loyal to Bangkok and able to work through a well-established
network of loyal officials in the sruk. But the Vietnamese still occupied a
strong bargaining position, particularly as they retained Cambodia’s
regalia, without which Duang could not legitimately ascend the throne.
In a face-saving gesture, they demanded that a tributary mission
headed by a Cambodian official travel to Hué in March 1846 and declare
Cambodia’s pro forma subservience to Vietnam.54 When the embassy
returned to Phnom Penh in June 1847, the Vietnamese handed over the
Cambodian regalia and released several members of the Khmer royal
family who had been in their custody, in some cases for many years. Soon
afterward, they withdrew their forces from Cambodia. For the first time
since 1811, there were no Vietnamese officials on Cambodian soil.
Over the next few months, in a series of ceremonial gestures, Duang
reenacted the restoration of Thai-sponsored kingship that had been
eclipsed for so many years. It would be a mistake to dismiss these
ceremonial actions as mere protocol because Duang, like most Southeast
Asian rulers at the time, did not disentangle what we would call the
religious and political strands of his thinking, duties, and behavior. Kingly
behavior, in other words, was thought to have political results, and political
actions were thought to enhance or diminish a monarch’s fund of merit.55
Many of these ceremonies had to do with the restoration of Theravada
Buddhism as the state religion. One account relates that Duang
leveled the [Vietnamese] fortifications at
Phnom Penh, and hauled away the bricks to
build and restore . . . [seven] Buddhist
monasteries near Udong. Broken Buddhaimages
were recast, and new ones were carved.
Monks were encouraged to live in monasteries
again, and people were encouraged to respect
them.56
To his subjects, Duang’s return to Cambodia and the restoration of
Buddhism there were ex post facto proofs of his kingliness, legitimacy, and
merit. An inscription from 1851 describes the electric effect of this
restoration in the 1840s:
There was a mighty ruler, whose name was
Duang. He came from the royal city [Bangkok]
to Cambodia, and lived in the fortified city of
Udong. With merit, skill, and masterly
intelligence, the king scattered his enemies in
terror; and soon the three warring states were
friends again.57
On an auspicious day in April 1848, Duang was anointed by Thai and
Cambodian brahmans in Udong and ascended the Cambodian throne. He
was fifty-two years old, and his reign, which lasted twelve years, can be
seen as something of a cultural renaissance. For most of these years the
kingdom was at peace, and although Thai political advisers and some Thai
troops lingered at Udong, Duang was relatively free to make political
decisions, such as those connected with awarding titles to okya. The
chronicles of his reign emphasize its restorative aspects. A wide range of
institutions and relationships was involved. The chronicle points to
linguistic reforms, public works, sumptuary laws, and new sets of royal
titles. From other sources, we know that Duang was an accomplished poet
and presided over the promulgation of a new law code and the compilation
of new chronicle histories.58
Chroniclers in the 1880s and the 1930s, looking back to those few
years of Cambodian independence prior to French control, seem to have
have considered Duang’s reign to be a kind of golden age. The king
himself was relatively cautious after so many years of semicaptivity in
Bangkok. His relations with Rama III and Rama IV (King Mongkut) were
dutiful and subservient, as his letters to these monarchs show.59 He made
no attempt to improve relations with Vietnam in the hope of gaining some
freedom of maneuver, perhaps because he was frightened by the precedent
of the 1830s and because from the Vietnamese point of view any
improvement in relations would only have intensified his dependency on
them. Instead, in 1853 he somewhat clumsily sought French protection by
sending gifts and offering his “humble homage  to the emperor of France,
Napoleon III, via the French consulate in Singapore. Duang was probably
put up to this by French Catholic missionaries who were active near
Udong. His gifts included four elephant tusks, two rhinoceros horns, and
sizable quantities of sugar and white pepper. A French diplomatic mission
to his court, bearing a draft treaty of friendship (see Chapter 8), was not
allowed to proceed to Udong by the Thai, who had swiftly brought their
client monarch to heel.
Duang seems to have sought French help not so much to escape Thai
protection, which would have been impossible to manage, as to defend
himself against the Vietnamese. In letters to the French, he referred to
them, as Pol Pot was to do in the 1970s, as Cambodia’s “traditional
enemies.  Ironically, in the 1860s France took over Vietnam’s patronage of
Cambodia, eliminated Vietnamese influence, and then proceeded to
encourage Vietnamese immigration into Cambodia. After his attempt to
make friends with France had failed, Duang explained himself to a French
missionary, saying, “What would you have me do? I have two masters who
always have an eye fixed on me. They are my neighbors, and France is far
away. 60 Clearly, many conditions had to change before Cambodia could
emerge from this dual dependency, which had lasted with brief interludes
for more than fifty years.
8
THE EARLY STAGES OF THE
FRENCH PROTECTORATE
There are several ways of looking at the years of French hegemony over
Cambodia. One is to break them into phases and to trace the extension
and decline of French control. Another would examine the period and its
ideology and practice—political, economic, educational, and so forth—
from a French point of view. A third would treat the period as part of
Cambodian history, connected to the times before and after French
protection. Now that the French are gone, the third perspective seems the
most attractive. Although there are serious gaps in the sources and
although useful primary material in Khmer aside from royal chronicles is
very scarce, in this chapter I attempt to see the French as often as possible
through Cambodian eyes.
In the meantime, if we look at the colonial era in terms of the waxing
and waning of French control (the first of the three perspectives), the years
break fairly easily into phases. The first phase lasted from the
establishment of the protectorate in 1863 to the outbreak of a national
rebellion in 1884. The second phase would extend from the suppression of
the rebellion in 1886 to King Norodom’s death in 1904 when a more
cooperative monarch, Norodom’s half-brother, Sisowath, came to the
throne. The third phase lasted until Norodom Sihanouk’s coronation in
1941 and spans the reigns of Sisowath (r. 1904–27) and his eldest son,
Monivong (r. 1927–41). This period, it can be argued, was the only
systematically colonial one in Cambodian history, for in the remainder of
the colonial era (1941–53) the French were concerned more with holding
onto power than with systematizing their control.
From a Cambodian perspective, however, it is possible to take the view
that the colonial era falls into two periods rather than four, with the break
occurring at Sisowath’s coronation in 1906. From that point on,
Cambodians stopped governing themselves, and the Westernization of
Cambodian life, especially in the towns, intensified. What would have
been recognizable in a sruk in 1904 to a Cambodian official of the 1840s
had been modified sharply by 1920, when the French government,
particularly at the local level, had been organized as part of a total effort in
Indochina.
But until the late 1940s, I suspect, few Cambodians would have
considered these mechanical changes, or the French presence as a whole,
as having a deleterious effect on their lives or on their durable institutions
of subsistence farming, family life, Buddhism, and kingship. The political
stability that characterized most of the colonial era can be traced in part to
French patronage of the king and the king’s patronage of the sangha,
which tended to keep these two institutions aligned (politically, at least)
with French objectives—partly because kings, monks, and officials had no
tradition of innovative behavior and partly because heresy and rebellion,
the popular methods of questioning their authority, had been effectively
smothered by the French since the 1880s. In terms of economic
transformations, the significant developments that occurred in the
technology of rice farming tended to be limited to the northwestern part of
the kingdom, where huge rice plantations had come into being. In the rest
of the country, as Jean Delvert has shown, the expanding population
tended to cultivate rice in small, family-oriented plots, as they seem to
have done since the times of Chenla.1
Because of this stability, perhaps, many French writers tended to
romanticize and favor the Cambodians at the expense of the Vietnamese.
At the same time, because in their terms so little was going on, they also
tended to look down on the Cambodians as “lazy  or “obedient.  An
ambiguous romanticism suffuses many French-language sources on the
colonial era, especially in the twentieth century, when clichés about the
people were passed along as heirlooms from one official (or one issue of a
newspaper) to the next. At the same time, until the early 1940s, no
Cambodian-language sources questioned the efficacy of French rule or
Cambodia’s traditional institutions.
Prince Sisowath and his entourage, 1866. Courtesy of Bibliotheque
Nationale, Paris.
For these reasons it is tempting to join some French authors and skip
over an era when “nothing happened.  But to do so would be a mistake
because what was happening, especially after the economic boom of the
1920s, was that independent, prerevolutionary Cambodia (with all its
shortcomings) was being built or foreshadowed despite large areas of life
that remained, as many French writers would say, part of the “timeless 
and “mysterious  Cambodia of Angkor.
It is tempting also to divide French behavior in Cambodia into such
categories as political, economic, and social, terms that give the false
impression that they are separable segments of reality. What the French
meant by them in the context of the colonial situation tended to be
idiosyncratic. Politics, for example, meant dissidence and manipulation
rather than participation in an open political process. Ideally, in a colony
there should be no politics at all. Economics meant budgets, taxes, and
revenues—in other words, the economics of bureaucratic control. On the
rare occasions when French writers looked at Cambodia’s economy, they
related it to the rest of Indochina, particularly in terms of export crops and
colonial initiatives like public works, rather than to Cambodian needs and
capabilities. By the 1920s, in the eyes of French officials, Cambodia had
become a rice-making machine, producing revenue in exchange for
“guidance.  This meant that the essence of government—rajakar, or “royal
work —remained what it had always been, the extraction of revenue from
the peasants. As for social, the word as the French used it did not refer to
solidarity among people or relationships that added up to political
cohesion. Instead, society meant a conglomeration of families, obediently at
work.
The chronological perspective and the analytical ones just mentioned
may be helpful in examining the colonial era because looking at these years
in terms of Cambodian history means looking at them in terms of
continuity and change. From this angle, the alterations to Cambodian
society and the thinking of the Cambodian elite are as important as the
apparently timeless life in the villages, which was also changing.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FRENCH
PROTECTORATE
The beginnings of French involvement in Cambodia are to be found in the
eighteenth century, when Catholic missionaries took up residence in the
kingdom, especially in the vicinity of Udong. French involvement did not
become political, however, before the 1850s, coincident with French
involvement in Vietnam. In the mid-1850s King Duang sought French
support in an attempt to play off the Thai against the Vietnamese, but a
French diplomatic mission to Cambodia in 1856, armed with a draft treaty
of cooperation, failed to reach the Cambodian court, which was frightened
away from welcoming it by Thai political advisers. The draft treaty,
incidentally, contained several clauses that passed into the operative one
concluded in 1863. The French wanted teak for shipbuilding, for example,
as well as freedom to move about the country and freedom to proselytize
for the Roman Catholic faith.2
French interest in Cambodia deepened with their involvement in
Vietnam and also after a French naturalist, Henri Mouhot (1826–61),
visited Duang’s court and then proceeded to Siem Reap, where he
discovered the ruins of Angkor. Mouhot suggested in a posthumously
published book about his travels that Cambodia was exceptionally rich and
that its rulers were neglecting their patrimony.3 Duang’s openness to
Mouhot and to other European visitors in this period stemmed in part
from his friendship with a French missionary, Monseigneur Jean Claude
Miche, whose mission headquarters was located near Udong and who had
actively supported the 1856 diplomatic mission. Miche convinced the king
that there could be advantages in being free from Thai control and
Vietnamese threats. In the last two years of his reign, moreover, Duang
also saw French expansion into Vietnam as an opportunity for him to
regain territory and Khmer-speaking people lost to the Vietnamese over
the preceding two hundred years.4
Bogged down in guerrilla warfare in Vietnam and unsure of support
from Paris, the French administrators in Saigon were slow to respond to
Cambodia’s assertions of friendship. The matter lapsed when Duang died
in 1860 and Cambodia was plunged into a series of civil wars. Duang’s
designated heir, Norodom, was unpopular in the eastern sruk and among
Cham dissidents, who had almost captured Udong while Duang was alive.
Norodom had spent much of his youth as a hostage at the Thai court.
Unable to rule, he fled Cambodia in 1861, returning with Thai support at
the end of the following year. But he returned on a probationary basis, for
his royal regalia remained in Bangkok. Angered by Thai interference and
attracted by French promises of gifts, Norodom reopened negotiations
with the French. According to a contemporary, the French admiral in
charge of southern Vietnam, “having no immediate war to fight, looked for
a peaceful conquest and began dreaming about Cambodia. 5
The colonial era began without a shot and in a tentative way. A
delegation of French naval officers concluded a treaty with Norodom in
Udong in August 1863, offering him protection at the hands of a French
resident in exchange for timber concessions and mineral exploration rights.
Norodom managed to keep the treaty secret from his Thai advisers for
several months. When they found out about it and notified Bangkok, he
quickly reasserted his dependence on the Thai king, declaring to his
advisers, “I desire to remain the Thai king’s servant, for his glory, until the
end of my life. No change ever occurs in my heart.  The Thai, in turn,
kept Norodom’s change of heart a secret from the French, who learned of
it only after his earlier declaration of faith had been ratified in Paris in
early 1864.6
What Norodom wanted from the French vis-à-vis the Thai is unclear.
He seems to have been playing for time, and the method he chose
resembled that of his uncle, King Chan, with the French in the role of the
Vietnamese. He also wanted to be crowned, and by the middle of 1864,
the Thai and the French had agreed to cosponsor his coronation. The
unintentionally comical aspects of the ceremony are recounted by several
French sources. Thai and French officials quarreled about precedent,
protocol, and regalia while Norodom, using time-honored filial imagery,
proclaimed his dependence on both courts. For the last time, the
Cambodian king’s titles were chosen and transmitted by Bangkok; for the
last time, too, the Cambodian king claimed to draw legitimacy from two
foreign courts. For the first time, a Cambodian king accepted his crown
from a European. The next three Cambodian monarchs followed suit.
From this point on, Thai influence in Cambodia began to wane, fading
even more sharply and more or less for good after King Mongkut died in
1867.7
The imposition of French protection over Cambodia did not end the
dynastic and millenarian rebellions that had plagued the beginning of
Norodom’s reign, although French military forces were helpful in quelling
these rebellions by 1867. The most important of them was led by Pou
Kombo, an ex-monk who claimed that that he had a better right than
Norodom to be king. A year before, Norodom had shifted his palace to
Phnom Penh. He had been urged to do so by the French, just as Chan had
been encouraged to move by the Vietnamese earlier in the century, and for
similar tactical reasons. In the French case, commercial motives were also
at work, for Phnom Penh was more accessible from Saigon than an inland
capital would have been, and it was hoped that the exploration of the
Mekong River under Commandant E. Doudart de Lagrée (1823–68)
would result in data about the river’s northern reaches that would justify
French pipe dreams of Phnom Penh as an important commercial city.8
For the French the 1860s and 1870s were a heroic period, partly
because government remained largely in the hands of young naval officers
hungry for glory, eager for promotion, and entranced by the exotic setting
in which they found themselves. By and large, these omnicompetent
pioneers of colonialism—Doudart de Lagrée, Francis Garnier, Jean
Moura, and Etienne Aymonier, among others—possessed great energy,
intellectual integrity, and sympathy for ordinary Khmer. They explored the
Mekong, translated Cambodian chronicles, deciphered inscriptions, and
arranged for the shipment of tons of Cambodian sculpture to museums in
Paris, Saigon, and eventually Phnom Penh. The grandeur of their exploits
and of Cambodia’s distant past formed a sharp contrast in their minds with
what they regarded as the decay of the Cambodian court and the
helplessness of the Cambodian people. At the same time, as Gregor
Muller has shown, the protectorate in its early years was plagued by
unscrupulous French adventurers posing as entrepreneurs and eager to
capitalize on royal cupidity and the ambiguities of French control.9
There was probably little difference, however, between the way
Cambodia was governed in the 1860s and 1870s and the way Angkor had
been governed almost a thousand years before. In both cases, perhaps, and
certainly for most of the years between, government meant a network of
status relationships and obligations whereby peasants paid in rice, forest
products, or labor to support their officials in exchange for their
protection. The officials, in turn, paid the king, using some of the rice,
forest products, and peasant labor with which they had been paid.
Entrepreneurs—often Chinese, occasionally French—paid the king for the
right to market and export the products. The number of peasants one
could exploit in this way depended on the positions granted by the throne,
positions that were themselves for sale. Officeholders in such a system
tended to be members of the elite with enough money or goods on hand to
purchase and protect their positions.
THE TIGHTENING OF FRENCH CONTROL
Within the palace, Norodom governed Cambodia in what the French
considered to be an arbitrary, authoritarian way. The French, however,
offered him no alternative style, and throughout his reign Norodom was
drawn less by the idea of a sound administration than by what he
considered to be the imperatives of personal survival. Revolts against his
rule (and implicitly against his acquiescence to the French) broke out in
1866–67 and in the 1870s. Both attracted considerable support, and the
French put both down with difficulty. Unwilling to blame themselves for
this state of affairs, the French blamed Norodom and were increasingly
drawn to support his half-brother, Sisowath, who had led troops alongside
the French in both rebellions.
Under French pressure and while another half-brother, Siwotha, was
in revolt against him, Norodom agreed in 1877 to promulgate a series of
reforms. Although these were never carried out, they are worth noting as
precursors of more extensive French control and as indications of areas of
French concern. The reforms sought to dismantle royal involvement in
landownership, to reduce the number of okya, to rationalize tax collection,
and to abolish slavery. Had they been enacted, they would have worn away
the power bases of the Cambodian elite. Like Minh Mang in the 1830s,
the French disliked the Cambodian way of doing things, which interfered
with their ideas of rational, centralized control. Institutions like slavery and
absolute monarchy, moreover, went down poorly with officials of the
Third Republic, less charmed by the romantic operetta aspects of
Cambodia than Napoleon III and his entourage had been.
In the early 1880s, as the French tightened their grip on Vietnam, it
was only a matter of time before they solved what they saw as Cambodia’s
problems and imposed their will on the Cambodian court. The comedy in
Phnom Penh had gone on too long and had cost the French too much.
The Cambodians had not seen the importance of paying for French
protection. The French became impatient and assumed for this reason that
time was running out. The riches of Cambodia remained largely untapped.
What had seemed exotic and quaint in Cambodian society in the 1860s
and 1870s was now seen by a new generation of civilian officials as
oppressive; it was time for protection to become control.
In 1884 the French succeeded in getting Norodom to agree to siphon
off customs duties, especially on exports, to pay for French administrative
costs. Norodom sent a cable to the president of France protesting French
pressure and was chided for doing so by the governor-general of Cochin
China, Charles Thomson, who had been negotiating secretly with
Sisowath to arrange a transfer of power should Norodom prove resistant to
the reforms.10
A few months later, Thomson sailed from Saigon to Phnom Penh and
confronted Norodom with a wide-ranging set of reforms encased in a
treaty that went further than previous documents had to establish de jure
French control. Thomson arrived at the palace unannounced one day at 10
p.m., traveling aboard a gunboat that was anchored within sight of the
palace. As Norodom reviewed the document, Thomson’s armed
bodyguards stood nearby. Aided by a complaisant interpreter, Son Diep,
who rose to bureaucratic heights after Norodom’s death, the king signed it
because he saw that doing so was the only way to stay on the throne; he
undoubtedly knew of Sisowath’s machinations. Perhaps he thought that
the document’s provisions would dissolve when the French encountered
opposition to the provisions from the Cambodian elite. This is, in fact,
what happened almost at once, but Article 2 of the treaty nevertheless
marked a substantial intensification of French control. As it read, “His
Majesty the King of Cambodia accepts all the administrative, judicial,
financial, and commercial reforms which the French government shall
judge, in future, useful to make their protectorate successful. 11
It was not this provision, however, that enraged the Cambodian elite,
who by that time probably viewed Norodom as a French puppet. The
features they saw as revolutionary (and that the French saw as crucial to
their program of reforms) were those that placed French résidents in
provincial cities, abolished slavery, and institutionalized the ownership of
land. These provisions struck at the heart of traditional Cambodian
politics, which were built up out of entourages, exploitation of labor, and
the taxation of harvests (rather than land) for the benefit of the elite, who
were now to become paid civil servants of the French, administering rather
than consuming the people under their control.
Although few French officials had taken the trouble to study what they
referred to as slavery in Cambodia, and although their motives for
abolishing it may have included a cynical attempt to disarm political
opposition in France to their other reforms, it is clear that the
deinstitutionalization of servitude was a more crucial reform, in
Cambodian terms, than the placement of a few French officials in the
countryside to oversee the behavior of Cambodian officials. Without this
reform the French could not claim to be acting on behalf of ordinary
people. More importantly, they could do nothing to curb the power of the
perennially hostile Cambodian elite, which sprang from who controlled
personnel. Without abolishing slavery, moreover, the French could not
proceed with their vision—however misguided it may have been—of a
liberated Cambodian yeomanry responding rationally to market pressures
and the benefits of French protection.
By cutting the ties that bound masters and servants—or, more
precisely, by saying that this was what they hoped to do—the French were
now able to justify their interference at every level of Cambodian life.
Their proposal effectively cut the king off from his entourage and this
entourage, in turn, from its followers. The French wanted Cambodia to be
an extension of Vietnam, with communal officials responding directly to
the French, even though government of this sort and at this level was
foreign to Cambodia, where no communal traditions—had they ever
existed—survived into the nineteenth century.
In the short run the Cambodian reaction to the treaty was intense and
costly to the French. In early 1885 a nationwide rebellion, under several
leaders, broke out at various points.12 It lasted a year and a half, tying
down some four thousand French and Vietnamese troops at a time when
French resources were stretched thin in Indochina. Unwilling to work
through Norodom, whom they suspected of supporting the rebellion, the
French relied increasingly on Sisowath, allowing him a free hand in
appointing pro-French officials in the sruk, further undermining
Norodom’s authority. It seems likely that Sisowath expected to be
rewarded with the throne while Norodom was still alive, but as the revolt
wore on the French found that they had to turn back to Norodom to
pacify the rebels. In July 1886 the king proclaimed that if the rebels laid
down their arms, the French would continue to respect Cambodian
customs and laws—in other words, the mixture as before. The rebellion
taught the French to be cautious, but their goals remained the same—to
make Canbodian governance more rational and to control the kingdom’s
economy. It was at this stage that the French began to surround Norodom
with Cambodian advisers who were loyal to them rather than to the king.
These were drawn, in large part, from the small corps of interpreters
trained under the French in the 1870s. The most notable of them was a
Sino-Khmer named Thiounn, who was to play an important role in
Cambodian politics until the 1940s.
The issue at stake in the rebellion, as Norodom’s chronicle points out,
was that the “Cambodian people were fond of their own leaders, 
especially because alternatives to them were so uncertain. A French writer
in the 1930s blamed the French for their hastiness in trying to impose
“equality, property, and an electorate, 13 because Cambodians were
supposed to choose their own village leaders under an article of the treaty.
He added that, in fact, “the masters wanted to keep their slaves and the
slaves their masters ; people clung to the patron-client system that had
been in effect in Cambodia for centuries.
Faced with the possibility of a drawn-out war, the French stepped back
from their proposed reforms. Although the treaty was ratified in 1886,
most of its provisions did not come into effect for nearly twenty years, after
Norodom was dead.
At the same time, it would be wrong to exaggerate this Cambodian
victory or to agree with some Cambodian writers in the early 1970s who
saw the rebellion as a watershed of Cambodian nationalism, with
Norodom cast as a courageous patriot cleverly opposing French control.
The evidence for these assertions is ambiguous. Norodom, after all,
accepted French protection in a general way but attacked it when he
thought his own interests, especially financial ones, were at stake. There is
little evidence that he viewed his people as anything other than objects to
consume, and certainly the French distrusted him more than ever after
1886. They spent the rest of his reign reducing his privileges and
independence. But it would be incorrect to endow Norodom or the
rebellious okya with systematic ideas about the Cambodian nation (as
opposed to particular, personal relationships).
With hindsight we can perceive two important lessons of the rebellion.
One was that the regional elite, despite French intervention in Cambodia,
was still able to organize sizable and efficient guerrilla forces, as it had
done against the Thai in 1834 and the Vietnamese in 1841; it was to do so
again in the more peaceable 1916 Affair discussed in Chapter 9. The
second lesson was that guerrilla troops, especially when supported by much
of the population, could hold a colonial army at bay.
The next ten years of Norodom’s reign saw an inexorable increase in
French control, with policies changing “from ones of sentiment . . . to a
more egotistic, more personal policy of colonial expansion. 14 All that
stood in the way of the French was the fact that Norodom still made the
laws, appointed the officials, and controlled the national economy by
farming out sources of revenue (such as the opium monopoly and
gambling concessions), by demanding gifts from his officials, and by
refusing to pay his bills. By 1892, however, the collection of direct taxes
had come under French control; two years later, there were ten French
résidences in the sruk. The 1890s, in fact, saw increasing French
consolidation throughout Indochina, culminating in the governorgeneralship
of Paul Doumer (1897–1902).
In Cambodia this consolidation involved tinkering with fiscal
procedures and favoring Sisowath rather than any of Norodom’s children
as the successor to the throne. French officials wanted Norodom to
relinquish control but were frightened by the independent-mindedness of
many of his sons, one of whom was exiled to Algeria in 1893 for
anticolonial agitation. The king’s health was poor in any case and was
made worse by his addiction to opium, which the French provided him in
ornamental boxes free of charge. As French officials grew more impatient
with Norodom and as he weakened, they became abusive. After all, there
were fortunes to be made by colonists in Cambodia, or so they thought,
and Norodom barred the way. The climax came in 1897 when the résident
supérieur, Huynh de Verneville, cabled Paris that the king was incapable of
ruling the country. Verneville asked to be granted executive authority, and
Paris concurred. The résident was now free to issue royal decrees, appoint
officials, and collect indirect taxes. As Milton Osborne has pointed out,
high-ranking Cambodian officials, previously dependent on Norodom’s
approval, were quick to sense a shift in the balance of power.15 By the end
of the year, the king’s advice—even though he had now regained his seals
and Verneville had been dismissed—was heeded only as a matter of form;
the new résident supérieur was in command, answerable to authorities in
Saigon, Paris, and Hanoi. What was now protected after a thirty-year tugof-
war between Norodom and the French, was not Cambodia, its
monarch, or its people, but French colonial interests.
In the meantime, long-postponed royal decrees, such as one that
allowed French citizens to purchase land, had produced a real estate boom
in Phnom Penh. The effect of the reforms in the sruk, as far as we can tell,
was less far-reaching. Throughout the 1890s, French résidents complained
officially about torpor, corruption, and timidity among local officials,
although one of the latter, sensing the tune he was now expected to play,
reported to his French superiors that “the population of all the villages in
my province is happy; [the people] have not even the slightest complaint
about the measures that have been taken. 16 The Cambodian countryside,
however, as many French officials complained, remained a terra incognita.
No one knew how many people it contained, what they thought, or who
held titles to land. Although slavery had been abolished, servitude for
debts—often lasting a lifetime—remained widespread. Millenarian leaders
occasionally gathered credulous followers and led them into revolt; in the
dry season, gangs of bandits roamed the countryside at will. At the village
level, in fact, conditions were probably no more secure than they had ever
been. And yet, many high-ranking French officials still saw their role in the
country in terms of a civilizing mission and of rationalizing their
relationships with the court. In the countryside, ironically, Sisowath was
more popular than Norodom, partly because the people had seen him more
often, on ceremonial occasions, and partly because Norodom’s rule had
been for the most part rapacious and unjust. Sisowath, in fact, looked on
approvingly at developments in the 1890s, and by 1897 or so French
officials had formally promised him the throne.
Norodom took seven more years to die. The last years of his reign were
marked by a scandal involving his favorite son, Prince Yukanthor, who
sought to publicize French injustice in Cambodia when he was in France
by hiring a French journalist to press his case with French officialdom.
Officials paid slight attention, except to take offense. Yukanthor’s
accusations were largely true, if perhaps too zealous and wide-ranging, as
when he declared to the people of France, “You have created property in
Cambodia, and thus you have created the poor. 17
Officials in Paris persuaded Norodom by cable to demand an apology
from his son. It never came, for Yukanthor preferred to remain in exile. He
died in Bangkok in 1934 and until then was viewed by French colonial
officials with slight but unjustified apprehension.
The two last prerogatives that Norodom surrendered to the French
were the authority to select his close advisers and the right to farm out
gambling concessions to Chinese businessmen in Phnom Penh. Little by
little, the French reduced his freedom of action. Osborne has recorded the
battles that Norodom lost, but the last pages of the royal chronicle
(compiled during the reign of Sisowath’s son, King Monivong, in the
1930s) say almost nothing about the confrontation, leaving the impression
that the reign was moving peacefully and ceremoniously toward its close.
SISOWATH’S EARLY YEARS
Norodom, like millions of people of his generation, was born in a village
and died in a semimodern city, graced at the time of his death with a
certain amount of electricity and running water. The modernization of the
edges and surfaces of his kingdom, however, spread very slowly.
Communications inside Cambodia remained poor; monks, royalty, and
officials—the people held in most respect—resisted institutional change;
and the so-called modernizing segment of the society was dominated by
the French, aided by immigrants from China and Vietnam. The
modernizers, interestingly, thought in Indochinese terms, or perhaps in
capitalist ones, while members of the traditional elite saw no reason to
widen their intellectual horizons or to tinker with their beliefs.
Norodom’s death, nonetheless, was a watershed in French involvement
and in Cambodian kingship as an institution, as the French handpicked
the next three kings of the country. Until 1953, except for a few months in
the summer of 1945, high-ranking Cambodian officials played a
subordinate, ceremonial role, and those at lower levels of the
administration were underpaid servants of a colonial power. At no point in
the chain of command was initiative rewarded. While Norodom lived, the
French encountered obstacles to their plans. After 1904, with some
exceptions, Cambodia became a relatively efficient revenue-producing
machine.
The change over the long term, which is easy to see from our
perspective, was not immediately perceptible in the sruk, where French
officials found old habits of patronage, dependence, violence, fatalism, and
corruption largely unchanged from year to year. Offices were still for sale,
tax rolls were falsified, and rice harvests were underestimated. Credulous
people were still ready to follow sorcerers and mountebanks. As late as
1923 in Stung Treng, an ex-monk gathered a following by claiming to
possess a “golden frog with a human voice. 18 Banditry was widespread,
and there were frequent famines and epidemics of malaria and cholera.
The contrast between the capital and the sruk, therefore, sharpened in the
early twentieth century, without apparently producing audible resentment
in the sruk, even though peasants in the long run paid with their labor and
their rice for all the improvements in Phnom Penh and for the high
salaries enjoyed by French officials, fueling the resentment of anti-French
guerrillas in the early 1950s and Communist cadres later on.
When Sisowath succeeded his brother in 1904 he was sixty-four years
old. Ever since the 1870s he had been an assiduous collaborator with the
French. He was a more fervent Buddhist than Norodom and he was more
popular among ordinary people, some of whom associated him with the
Buddhist ceremonies that he had sponsored (and that they had paid for)
rather than the taxes charged by his brother or by the French. According
to one French writer, he was so frightened of his brother, even in death,
that he refused to attend his cremation. The first two years of his reign,
according to the chronicle, were devoted largely to ceremonial observances
and to bureaucratic innovations (such as appointing an electrician for the
palace and enjoining officials to wear stockings and shoes in Western
style).19 On another occasion, Sisowath harangued visiting officials—
probably at French insistence—about the persistence of slavery in the
sruk.20 Throughout the year, like all Cambodian kings, he sponsored
ceremonies meant to ensure good harvests and rainfall. Each year for the
rest of his reign, the French provided Sisowath (as they had Norodom)
with an allowance of high-grade opium totaling 113 kilograms (249
pounds) per year.21
This early stage of his reign culminated in Norodom’s cremation in
1906, which was followed almost immediately by Sisowath’s coronation.
For the first time in Cambodian history, the ceremony is described in
detail in the chronicle (as well as by French sources). It lasted for several
days. One of its interesting features was that the French governor-general
of Indochina was entrusted with giving Sisowath his titles and handing
him his regalia. Another was that the chaovay sruk, summoned to the
palace for the occasion, solemnly pledged to the king “all rice lands,
vegetable fields, water, earth, forest and mountains, and the sacred
boundaries of the great city, the kingdom of Kampuchea. 22
Almost immediately after being crowned, Sisowath left Cambodia to
visit the Colonial Exhibition at Marseilles, in the company of the royal
ballet troupe.23 His voyage is scrupulously recorded in the chronicle, which
makes it sound like an episode in a Cambodian poem, and also in the
account of a palace official who accompanied the king. Sisowath’s progress
through Singapore, Ceylon, and the Indian Ocean is reverently set down
in both texts, and so are gnomic comments about the sights farther on
(three-story buildings in Italy, the coastline of the Red Sea consisting of
“nothing but sand and rock ). At Port Said, people eagerly came to pay
homage to “the lord of life and master of lives in the south.  In Marseilles,
when the king made a speech, “All the French people who were present
clapped their hands—men and women alike.  The chronicle and the
official’s somewhat overlapping account gives the impression that the king
decided to visit France; in fact, his visit was forced on him by the
requirement of the exposition officials that the royal ballet perform at the
Colonial Exhibition.24 From the French point of view, unofficially at least,
this visit by an aged potentate and his harem told them what they already
“knew  about his exotic, loyal, and faintly comic little country.25
After exchanging visits and dinners with the president of the republic,
and a trip to Nancy to observe “the 14th of July in a European way,  the
king returned to Cambodia. Although neither the chronicle nor the palace
official’s narrative of the voyage mentions discussions of substantive
matters, Sisowath’s visit to Paris coincided with Franco-Thai negotiations
there that culminated, a few months later, in Siam’s retrocession to
Cambodia of the sruk of Battambang and Siem Reap.26 The trip received
little publicity at home and is mentioned in French reports from the sruk
only in connection with a rumor that Sisowath had gone to France to
plead with the French to legalize gambling in Cambodia.
The number of pages in Sisowath’s chronicle devoted to the return of
Battambang and Siem Reap suggests that the compilers, like the French,
considered this to be the most important event of the reign, even though
the king had little to do with it beyond providing the résident supérieur, in
1906, with a history of Thai occupation. The importance of the
retrocession was probably connected with the importance that Angkor,
and especially Angkor Wat, had retained for the Cambodian monarchy for
several centuries.27 In 1909 a copy of the Cambodian translation of sacred
Buddhist writings, the Tripitaka, was deposited in a monastery on the
grounds of Angkor Wat, and for another sixty years Cambodian monarchs
frequently visited the site and sponsored ceremonies there.
As we have seen, the northwestern sruk had come under Thai control
in 1794, apparently in exchange for Thai permission for Eng, Sisowath’s
grandfather, to rule at Udong. Over the next hundred years, except for a
brief period in the 1830s, the Thai made little effort to colonize (or
depopulate) the region, choosing to govern it at most levels with ethnic
Khmer. Although they did nothing to restore the temples at Angkor, they
left them intact. Revenue from the two sruk—in stipulated amounts of
cardamom and other forest products—was not especially high, and the
region was more defensible by water from Phnom Penh than overland
from Bangkok.28
Entrance to the Royal Palace in Phnom Penh. Photo by Roger Smith.
For these reasons, but primarily to avoid further friction along its
border, the Thai decided in 1906 to cede the sruk to France. The French
and the Thai signed the final agreement in April 1907, and the sruk came
under French control toward the end of the year. Sisowath was not
encouraged to visit the area, however, until 1909, for reasons that the
chronicle fails to make clear.
And yet the king and his subjects were overjoyed at the restoration of
Angkor. In the tang tok ceremonies of October 1907, when officials
traditionally offered gifts to the monarch, widely attended celebrations
occurred throughout the kingdom to “thank the angels  (thevoda) for the
return of the sruk, and local officials assigned to the region came to Phnom
Penh to pay homage to the king.
Over the next half century, French scholars and Cambodian workers
restored the temples at Angkor. In the long run the restoration was
probably France’s most valuable legacy to Cambodia. Battambang,
especially in the 1920s, developed into the country’s most prosperous sruk,
providing the bulk of Cambodia’s rice exports and sheltering,
idiosyncratically, the greatest number of landlords in the country as well as
the highest number of immigrants from elsewhere in Cambodia and from
the Cambodian-speaking portions of Cochin China.29
By 1909, typewriters had been installed in all the résidences;
automobiles came into use on a national scale at about the same time.
These two improvements in French administration had several
unintentional effects. For one thing, the volume of reports required by
résidents, and consumed by their superiors in Phnom Penh, Saigon, Hanoi,
and Paris, increased dramatically. Résidents, more than ever, were tied
down to their offices, presiding over a two-way flow of paper. They were
seldom in contact, socially or professionally, with the people they were
paid to supposedly civilize and protect. In automobiles, tours of inspection
became speedier and more superficial, for résidents, and their aides were
confined to passable roads. In fact, the intensification of French economic
and political controls over Cambodia, noticeable throughout the 1920s and
after, was accompanied, ironically, by the withdrawal of French officials
from many levels of Cambodian life. The government that a Cambodian
peasant might encounter in these years was composed of a minority of
Cambodians and of a great many Vietnamese brought into the
protectorate because they could prepare reports in French, and this
interplay between Cambodians and Vietnamese had important effects on
the development of Cambodian nationalism, especially after World War
II.
9
CAMBODIA’S RESPONSE TO
FRANCE, 1916–45
Two events of political importance stand out in the last ten years or so of
Sisowath’s reign. These are the so-called 1916 Affair and the murder of a
French résident, Félix Louis Bardez, in rural Kompong Chnang in 1925.
The first of these revealed how little the French knew about
communications and social organization in Cambodia after more than fifty
years of being in control. The second, perhaps because it was the only
incident of its kind in the colonial era, shocked the regime and was blown
out of proportion in postcolonial times by Cambodian nationalist writers.
THE 1916 AFFAIR
To understand the 1916 Affair, we must remember that the French
financed almost all of their activities in Cambodia, including public works
and the salaries of French officials, by a complex and onerous network of
taxes on salt, alcohol, opium, rice, and other crops, as well as on exported
and imported goods, and by levying extensive fees for all government
services. Of those too poor to buy their way out of corvée labor
assignments the French could require ninety days of labor. The cash to pay
rice taxes came only when peasant householders had sold their harvests for
cash or had been able to earn enough cash to pay the taxes by hiring
themselves out in the off-season. There was a certain amount of flexibility
in the system because tax records were poorly kept and local leaders tended
to underestimate the number of people they controlled in order to spread
the tax burden more evenly through the population and to increase their
own opportunities for profit.
During World War I, the French increased this burden throughout
Indochina by floating war loans to which local people, especially the leisure
classes (presumably Chinese merchants), were forcefully urged to
subscribe; by levying additional taxes; and by recruiting volunteers for
military service abroad. In late November 1915, some three hundred
peasants from the area northeast of Phnom Penh arrived in the capital
with a petition to Sisowath asking him to reduce the taxes that were levied
by the French but collected by Cambodian officials. The king met the
delegation and ordered its members to go home, promising vaguely that
some adjustments would be made.1
News of the confrontation apparently spread in the sruk to the east of
Phnom Penh—long a hotbed of antidynastic sentiment—and larger and
larger delegations, sometimes numbering as many as three thousand
peasants, began walking into the capital and assembling outside the palace
to place their grievances before the king. French résidents, reporting on
these movements, registered their surprise not only at the size of the
delegations but also, as one wrote, at the fact that they had “been set in
motion with such disconcerting speed.  Another mentioned that no one
had predicted the affair, although “the entire population was involved. 
French police estimated that some forty thousand peasants passed through
Phnom Penh in the early months of 1916 before being ordered back to
their villages by the king. Other estimates run as high as a hundred
thousand. Scattered incidents in the sruk later in the year claimed a halfdozen
Cambodian lives; at the same time, Sisowath toured the eastern sruk
by automobile, exhorting peasants to remain peacefully in their homes and
canceling any further corvée for 1916.
In the long run, the 1916 Affair had little effect on the way the French
ran Cambodia or on Cambodian responses to the French. In fact, it is
unclear that the demonstrations opposed the French protectorate at all;
French administrators were sidestepped by the petitioners, who sought
justice directly from the king. What is extraordinary about the
demonstrations is the speed and efficiency with which they were organized
by provincial leaders whose identity and motives remain obscure. The
incident undermined French mythology about lazy and individualistic
Cambodians, who were supposedly impervious to leadership or ideology.
Some French officials, panicked by the size of the delegations, blamed the
affair on “German agents.  Others saw evidence of deep-seated
antimonarchic feeling, citing a manifesto that had circulated earlier in
1915, stating that “the French have made us very unhappy for many years
by keeping bad people as the king and as officials while treating good
people as bad. 2
Interestingly, the 1916 Affair coincided with serious anti-French
demonstrations in Cochin China. The possibility of links between the two
was noted by some French officials, but the speed with which Cambodian
disaffection died down suggests that people there had been demonstrating
to relieve local wrongs.
In the nine years that passed before the assassination of résident Bardez,
the French tightened and rationalized their control over Cambodia—and
especially over the organization of revenue collection and day-to-day
administration—so much so that some “aged  Cambodian officials
complained that “too many changes  were taking place. In 1920, for
example, the French arranged for rice taxes to be collected by local officials
rather than by officials sent to the sruk from Phnom Penh. A year later, the
French experimented with a “communal  reorganization of Cambodia
along Vietnamese lines, only to drop the idea after a year or so. The
French extended their supervisory role to cover local justice in 1923,
expanded wat education from 1924 onward, and used corvée to build an
impressive array of public works, particularly roads and a mountain resort
at Bokor favored by the king, which was built by prisoners (with a
tremendous loss of life) and opened in 1925. The first rice mills had
opened in Cambodia in 1917—previously, unmilled rice had been shipped
to Saigon—and the 1916–25 period (with the noticeable exception of
1918–19, a year of very poor harvests and, in some sruk, famine conditions)
was one of increasing prosperity in Cambodia, especially for local Chinese
merchants and the French.3
The gap in income between the French and the Cambodians—with
the rare exceptions of a few favored officials and the royal family—was very
wide. A French official could earn as much as twelve thousand piastres a
year. With exemptions for a wife and two children, such an official would
pay only thirty piastres in tax. Cambodian officials were paid less for
similar jobs and were the first to have their wages cut during the
depression of the 1930s. A Cambodian farmer, on the other hand, with no
salary other than what he could earn (at thirty cents per day, or ninety
piastres a year) or what he could sell his crops for (seldom more than forty
piastres a year), was saddled with a range of taxes that totaled in the 1920s
as much as twelve piastres per year. He was taxed individually and in cash
payment in lieu of corvée, his rice was taxed at a fixed percentage, and he
paid high prices for salt, opium, and alcohol and abattoir taxes when his
livestock went to slaughter.
What did the peasant receive in exchange? Very little, despite French
rhetoric to the contrary. Monthly reports from French résidents show that
widespread rural violence and disorder, which made no direct challenge to
French control, seldom rose into the political portions of the reports. It is
clear, however, that to most villagers the perpetual harassment of bandit
gangs, especially in the dry season, was far more real than any benefits
brought to them by the French.4
Before the 1930s the French spent almost nothing on Cambodian
education. A French official in 1922 accurately characterized efforts in this
field as a mere façade. Medical services were also derisory, and electricity
and running water were almost unknown outside Phnom Penh.
Cambodia’s money, in other words, went to finance French officials and
the things they wanted to build. In exchange, Cambodia was protected
from control by anyone else, as well as from the perils of independence.
The French succeeded in keeping the nineteenth century from repeating
itself while keeping the twentieth century at bay. The fear of modernity
runs through a good deal of French writing about colonial Cambodia, even
though the French in another context perceived their role as one of
transmitting modernity to the Khmer. Because what they were supposed to
be doing was not allowed to take place, the French took refuge in beliefs
about the purportedly innate characteristics of the Cambodians, which
supposedly kept them immune from modern ideas.
These beliefs were based less and less on direct experience with the
Cambodians themselves. The most articulate critic of French colonialism
at this time, the medical official André Pannetier, remarked that
competence among Frenchmen in the Khmer language declined steadily as
the twentieth century wore on.5 Ironically, as the adventure and romance
of serving in Cambodia wore thin, the clichés with which French
bureaucrats described the Cambodian people became increasingly fuzzy
and romantic. The process came to a climax of sorts in 1927, when former
Governor-General Paul Doumer, by then president of France, unveiled a
group of statues on the staircase that links the railroad station in Marseilles
with the city below. One of these, entitled “Our Possessions in Asia, 
depicts a half-naked teenaged girl decked out in approximately Angkorean
garb, lying on a divan and being waited on by smaller half-clad girls
representing Laos and Vietnam. Considered the easiest and oldest of
French protectorates in Indochina, Cambodia was rewarded by being
portrayed as the oldest child and as receiving tribute of a kind from the
other two. The notion that Cambodians lay around receiving tidbits, of
course, may also have been at the back of the sculptor’s mind.6
THE ASSASSINATION OF RÉSIDENT BARDEZ
In late 1923 the acting French résident in Prey Veng, a vigorous and
ambitious official named Félix Louis Bardez, reported his belief that there
were three reasons why tax receipts were so low: “the complete inactivity of
Cambodian officials, the lack of supervision [over the officers expected to
collect the taxes], and shortcomings in collection procedures. 7 During the
course of 1924, Bardez improved the procedures for tax collection in the
sruk to the extent that all eighteen categories of tax yielded more revenues
than in 1923. He showed that the system could be made more productive
by working harder himself. Indeed, the two categories of tax in which
revenues rose the most—rice taxes and Chinese head taxes—were precisely
those that could be increased on the spot by a vigorous résident eager to
expose the compromises, doctored books, and exaggerations of local
officials.
Bardez’s success in Prey Veng attracted the attention of his superiors,
and in late 1924 he was transferred ahead of many more senior officials to
be résident in Kompong Chhnang, which had long been bedeviled by
banditry and low tax revenues. Bardez’s arrival coincided roughly with the
promulgation of a supplementary tax to pay for the mountain resort of
Bokor, but money was hard to come by, as Bardez admitted to a friend,
and receipts from Cambodian officials were slow in coming. One official
trying to collect the new taxes was severely beaten by villagers in the
district in early 1925.
On April 18, angered by reports that another village, Krang Laav, was
delinquent in its payments, Bardez visited the village himself, accompanied
by an interpreter and a Cambodian militiaman.8 Summoning delinquent
taxpayers to the village hall, or sala, he had several of them handcuffed and
he threatened to take them to prison, even though they would not be
subject to fines for their delinquency for three months. His refusal to let
the prisoners have lunch while he himself was eating destroyed the
patience of the crowd of people looking on, who lacked food or shelter. In
a confused mêlée, Bardez and his companions were set upon by twenty or
thirty people. Within half an hour, Bardez, the interpreter, and the
militiaman had been beaten to death with chairs, fence palings, ax handles,
and the militiaman’s rifle butt. The corpses were then mutilated; according
to some witnesses, the murderers danced around them. Soon afterward,
incited by local leaders who were never brought to trial, seven hundred
Cambodians—the crowd that had gathered to listen to Bardez—began
marching on Kompong Chhnang to demand remission of their taxes.
After a few hours, however, their fervor died down, and the marchers
broke up or were dispersed by an armed militia before they reached their
destination.
News of Bardez’s murder shocked the French community in Phnom
Penh, largely because it was the first time villagers had killed a highranking
French official on duty. Officials had been killed by bandits or by
their servants, but none while collecting taxes. The precedent obviously
was a dramatic one. Moving swiftly through their protégés in the royal
family, the French saw to it that Sisowath sent his eldest son, Prince
Monivong, to the area with a French political counselor to communicate
his discontent. This took the form of a royal ordinance changing the name
of the village from Krang Laav to Direchhan (“Bestiality ).9 The ordinance
forced the villagers to conduct expiatory services for Bardez on the
anniversary of his murder for the next ten years. A key feature of the
ordinance was its insistence on collective guilt. This was the line pursued
by the defense in the trial of the eighteen men arrested for Bardez’s
murder, but it was dismissed by the prosecution, which saw danger in
linking the murder with any kind of political discontent. Interestingly, one
of the men arrested for the murder was still alive in 1980, when he told an
interviewer that “everyone in the village  had beaten Bardez and his
companions.10
The trial of the men accused of the murders opened in Phnom Penh in
December 1925 and was widely reported in the press, which fitted the case
into a pattern of increasing anticolonial feeling elsewhere in Indochina. At
the trial the prosecution tried to prove that the defendants were pirates
from outside the village and that robbery had been their motive. In fact,
although the taxes collected by Bardez disappeared in the mêlée, his own
billfold was untouched. More to the point, his diary was confiscated by the
prosecution and classified as confidential because of the “political  material
it contained. Testimony by several of Bardez’s friends suggested that the
diary may have recorded his pessimism about collecting extra taxes. To one
of them he had remarked shortly before his death that there was simply
not enough money in the sruk to meet the newly imposed demands. Highranking
French officials interfered with witnesses for the defense. At one
point, the defense attorney’s tea was apparently poisoned by unknown
hands, and a stenographer hired by the defense was forced by her former
employers to return to her job in Saigon. What the French wanted to keep
quiet, it seems, was the fact that emerged at the trial—on a per capita basis
the Cambodian peasants paid the highest taxes in Indochina as a price for
their docility.
The Bardez incident resembles the 1916 Affair and the 1942 monks
demonstration, discussed below, in that nothing like it had happened
previously in the colonial era. It exposed the mechanics of colonial rule and
the unreality of French mythology about the Cambodian character. One
aspect of the widening distance between the French and the Cambodians
was the fact that Bardez, after fifteen years of conscientious service in
Cambodia, was still unable to speak Khmer. Without knowing the
language, how accurate could his assessments be of what ordinary people
were thinking? It is as if a great deal of Cambodian life in the colonial
period was carried out behind a screen, invisible and inaudible to the
French. Another French résident, writing at about this time, made a
perceptive comment in this regard: “It’s permissible to ask if the unvarying
calm which the [Cambodian] people continue to exhibit is not merely an
external appearance, covering up vague, unexpressed feelings [emphasis
added] . . . whose exact nature we cannot perceive. 11
Résidents might justify their conduct by saying that they were paid to
administer the population, not to understand it. Every month they were
required to complete mountains of paperwork, to sit for days as referees in
often inconclusive legal cases, and to supervise the extensive programs of
public works, primarily roads, which the French used to perpetuate corvée,
to modernize Cambodia, and to justify their presence in the kingdom.
THE BEGINNINGS OF NATIONALISM
The Bardez incident also offers us a glimpse of Cambodian peasants
entering the historical record. Before 1927, in fact, there were no Khmerlanguage
newspapers or journals in the kingdom, and Cambodian
literature, when it was printed at all, consisted almost entirely of Buddhist
texts and nineteenth-century verse epics. The first novel in Khmer, Tonle
Sap, was published in 1938, two years after the appearance of the first
Khmer newspaper, Nagara Vatta (“Angkor Wat ).12 Although these facts
are not especially surprising in view of French inactivity in Cambodian
education, they contrast sharply with the quantity of printed material
produced in the Vietnamese components of Indochina. Literacy in
Cambodia had been linked since Angkorean times with the study and
promulgation of religious texts. In the colonial era, literacy in Khmer was
almost entirely in the hands of the Buddhist monkhood. Before 1936, in
fact, the only Khmer-language periodical, Kambuja Surya (“Cambodian
Sun ), had been published on a monthly basis under the auspices of the
French-funded Institut Bouddhique. With rare exceptions, the journal
limited itself to printing folklore, Buddhist texts, and material concerned
with the royal family. Even Cambodian chronicle histories in Khmer were
not yet available in print.13
Because of these conditions, the picture that emerges from the 1930s is
a peculiarly unbalanced one. The reading of French novels, official reports,
and newspapers allows us to reconstruct Cambodian history with much of
the population left out or merely acted upon by events. The manuscript
chronicles of King Sisowath and his son, King Sisowath Monivong (r.
1927–41), are not especially helpful, for they limit themselves to a
formulaic narration of events in which the king himself was involved,
although Monivong’s chronicle opens up a little to cover such events as the
1932 coup d’état in Siam, the Italo-Ethiopian war, and the French
surrender to Germany in 1940. The requirements of the genre removed
individual voices from the texts; even the kings are rarely quoted.14
Because archival sources from the sruk themselves for the colonial era are
not available for study, it is difficult to gauge the style and extent of social
change and intellectual upheaval, the extent to which they can be traced to
French initiatives, and Cambodian responses to them in the period before
World War II. Arguably, modernizing change in Cambodia did not filter
into the villages until the 1950s; yet the face of Cambodia was already very
different in the 1930s from what it had been when the French arrived or
even at the beginning of the century.
Overland communications had changed dramatically. From 1900 to
1930, some nine thousand kilometers (5,400 miles) of paved and graveled
roads had been built by corvée throughout the kingdom. Between 1928
and 1932, moreover, a 500-kilometer (300-mile) stretch of railroad was
built between Phnom Penh and Battambang, and it was later extended to
the Thai border. These changes meant that thousands of rural
Cambodians were now able to move rapidly around the country by bus,
and visits to Phnom Penh and district capitals became easier and more
frequent. These developments also favored French penetration and
Chinese exploitation of the rural economy. The commercial development
of Cambodia—especially in terms of rice exports and rubber plantations—
benefited the French, the Chinese entrepreneurs who monopolized the
export trade, and to a lesser extent the Vietnamese laborers who worked
the rubber plantations. William E. Willmott has shown that Chinese
immigration into Cambodia, which remained steady at around two
thousand a year until the 1920s, rose to five thousand a year during the
boom years.15 The Chinese population of the kingdom rose accordingly—
from perhaps one hundred seventy thousand in 1905 to three hundred
thousand at the beginning of World War II. Almost invariably, these
immigrants went into petty commerce, already dominated by Chinese and
Sino-Cambodians. Because many Vietnamese immigrants to Cambodia,
aside from those recruited for the plantations, also preferred urban
employment, cities in Cambodia, as so often in colonial Southeast Asia,
became enclaves dominated by foreign bureaucrats, immigrants, and
entrepreneurs. This fact was not lost on the Cambodian elite, but the elite
was unable or unwilling to do anything about it.
And the elite itself, although relatively small, was gradually increasing
in importance. An interesting coincidence occurred in 1930. As the first
stretch of track on the railroad went into service, the first Cambodian
students, including two princes and four men destined to be ministers in
the 1940s and 1950s, graduated from a French lycée in Saigon. Cambodia
had to wait until 1936 for a lycée of its own, which was named after
Sisowath and occupied the site of his former palace. Primary education, for
the most part, remained in the hands of the sangha, and the French
sponsored, at very little cost, a network of some five thousand extant wat
schools in which students learned traditional subjects in time-honored
ways.16
These developments took place in the context of the economic boom
that affected most of Indochina in the 1920s. In Cambodia the greatest
beneficiaries were the firms engaged in the export of rice and in the newly
opened rubber plantations near Kompong Cham. The plantations had
little economic impact on the Cambodian countryside, but rice production
rose sharply to meet international demands, and new funds generated by
the widening tax base were diverted into even more extensive public works,
including the beautification of Phnom Penh, the electrification of
provincial towns, the road-building mentioned above, and the construction
of seaside resorts and mountain hotels, which benefited the French and the
embryonic tourist industry. Under such conditions the Bardez incident
barely ruffled the surface of French complacency.
The world Depression of the 1930s, however, reversed or suspended
many of these trends, as the local price of rice plummeted from three
piastres to one piastre a picul (about 68 kilograms, or 150 pounds). The
Cambodian peasants’ reaction, insofar as it can be gauged from résidents’
reports, was to reduce rice hectarage (which dropped by a third throughout
the country from 1928 to 1933), to seek postponement or remission of
taxes, and to find solace in some areas in millenarian religious cults, such as
the recently inaugurated syncretic cult of Cao Dai in neighboring Cochin
China.17
The period was marked by several uprisings against the French in the
Vietnamese components of Indochina, but Cambodia remained quiet. In
their reports, French résidents frequently complimented the Cambodian
peasants for the “stoicism  with which they continued to react to the
highest and most variegated tax burden in Indochina. One of them traced
this obedience to the Cambodians’ “reverence for authority.  Nonetheless,
the level of rural violence—with Khmer victimizing Khmer—appears to
have risen slightly only to decline when the economic crisis faded in the
mid-1930s. Tax delinquency in rural areas reached 45 percent in 1931 and
more than 60 percent in the following year, when remissions were granted
by the résident supérieur. As most Cambodians reverted to subsistence
farming, Phnom Penh’s population, unsurprisingly, rose only slightly—
from ninety-six thousand in 1931 to barely one hundred thousand in 1936.
Throughout this period, and indeed until the 1970s, the capital was
informally divided into three residential zones, with Vietnamese and
Cham to the north, Chinese and French in the commercial center, and
Cambodians to the south and west of the royal palace, which faced the
Mekong River.
In an effort to increase tax revenue, in 1931 the French encouraged
King Monivong, who had succeeded his father five years earlier, to tour
the sruk, where he admonished audiences supplied by local officials on the
virtues of frugality and hard work. The king himself continued to live well,
and his grandson, Norodom Sihanouk, later recalled that Monivong spent
very little of his time attending to official business, preferring the company
of his numerous wives and concubines.18 One of his favorites was an elder
sister of Saloth Sar, the man who was to emerge in the 1970s as Pol Pot,
the secretary of the Cambodian Communist Party. In the midst of the
Depression, the French built several new palace buildings for Monivong.
In 1932 he entertained the French minister of colonies, Paul Reynaud,
who had come to Indochina to investigate the effects of the Vietnamese
uprisings of the previous year. In Cambodia the visit was entirely
ceremonial and stage-managed by the powerful Cambodian official
Thiounn, who by now held the portfolios of finance, palace affairs, and
fine arts. He had more or less governed the country under the French since
the beginning of Sisowath’s reign. Ironically, three of his highly educated
grandsons were to become prominent members of the Cambodian
Communist Party.
When the economy of Indochina recovered slowly in the mid-1930s,
rice exports, particularly from Battambang, reached one hundred thousand
metric tons a year, and new crops—especially maize—were grown in large
quantities for export. Administratively, the last part of the decade saw
increased Cambodian participation in administration, especially in the
sruk, where many who became officials of independent Cambodia—
including Nhek Tioulong, Lon Nol, and Sisowath Sirik Matak—were
beginning their careers. In political terms the French were pleased to
notice that disturbances in Cochin China, arising in part from conflicts
between Trotskyite and Communist supporters of the Popular Front
government in France, aroused no echoes in Cambodia, where a late but
well-mannered “awakening  was the subject of a tendentious French
brochure published on the occasion of a governor-general’s visit in 1935.19
By the word awakening the French meant economic advances and
administrative participation by the Khmer rather than any increased
autonomy or a sharpened awareness of the colonial situation. The roots of
postwar Cambodian nationalism, nonetheless, can be found in the 1930s,
at first in a cooperative and well-mannered guise, while the French were
looking in vain for the sorts of revolutionary politics and violence that they
were encountering at the time in Vietnam. Confidential French political
reports throughout the decade registered “none  under the obligatory
rubric of revolutionary activities, and latter-day Cambodian historians
looking for the roots of the Cambodian Communist movement cannot
find them in this period.20
And yet, an awakening of a sort was taking place, primarily among the
Cambodian elite in Phnom Penh and especially among those educated at
the kingdom’s first high school, the Collège (and, after 1936, the Lycée)
Sisowath, where the curriculum was entirely in French. Earlier in the
decade, students at the collège had appealed to the king against the
favoritism allegedly shown to students of Vietnamese heritage. By 1937 an
association of graduates had more than five hundred members.
This association was the first of its kind in Cambodia, where voluntary
associations along professional lines had always been slow to develop and
had been discouraged by the French. For years the French had lamented
the Cambodian aversion to solidarity while opposing any Cambodian
attempts—by veterans of World War I, for example, or by adherents of the
Cao Dai—to form associations. The fear of solidarity, in fact, appears to
have dominated the French reaction to the Bardez affair, as we have seen.
For administrative purposes the French preferred to deal with a society
that was, theoretically at least, arranged vertically rather than horizontally.
A similarly bureaucratic turn of mind, perhaps, made many French
officials suspicious of new developments in the countryside—whether they
were sponsored by Protestant missionaries, the Cao Dai, or any other
external agent—while doing little themselves to change the status quo,
characterized by widespread poverty, poor health, and no modern
education.
The three key channels for Cambodian self-awareness in the 1930s, in
fact, were the Lycée Sisowath, the Institut Bouddhique, and the
newspaper Nagara Vatta, founded in 1936 by Pach Chhoeun and Sim Var.
Both men, in their thirties, were soon joined by a young Cambodian judge,
born in Vietnam and educated in France, named Son Ngoc Thanh.21 The
three, in turn, were closely associated with the Institut Bouddhique, to
which Son Ngoc Thanh was later assigned as a librarian. This brought
them into contact with the leaders of the Cambodian sangha, with
Cambodian intellectuals, and also with a small group of French scholars
and officials led by the imaginative and energetic secretary of the institute,
Suzanne Karpelès, who were eager to help with Cambodia’s intellectual
renaissance.
The editorial stand of Nagara Vatta was pro-Cambodian without being
anti-French. It objected to Vietnamese domination of the Cambodian civil
service, Chinese domination of commerce, and the shortage of suitable
employment for educated Khmer. Editorials also condemned the usury of
Chinese rural merchants, French delays in modernizing the educational
system, the shortage of credit for Cambodian farmers, and the low pay of
Cambodian civil servants. The paper also sought to increase the distance
between Cambodian history and aspirations on the one hand and those of
the Vietnamese on the other. One editorial even went so far as to compare
Hitler’s territorial aggrandizement in Europe to that of Vietnam in
nineteenth-century Cambodia. A thread of anti-Vietnamese feeling
gradually emerged in the paper, a feeling that was to run through the
ideology of every Cambodian government after independence until the
Vietnamese invasion of 1978–79.
But in terms of its own historical context, what was important about
Nagara Vatta was that for the first time since 1863 a conversation had
opened up between the French and their allegedly dormant clientele, as
well as among the Cambodian elite. The paper’s circulation as early as
1937 rose to more than five thousand copies. Readership was undoubtedly
far higher.
Who were its readers? Who were the new elite? Primarily, they seem
to have been young Cambodian men in the lower ranks of the civil service,
educated at least partially in the French educational system. Undoubtedly,
they were concentrated in Phnom Penh. In his memoirs of this period,
Bunchhan Muul, by the 1970s a high official in the ill-fated Khmer
Republic, wrote that the paper saw as its mission the awakening of the
Cambodian people—an image that persisted into the 1950s, when Son
Ngoc Thanh returned from exile and founded another nationalist paper
entitled Khmer Krok (“Cambodians Awake ). The Nagara Vatta was
important because it gave thousands of Cambodians a chance for the first
time to read about events in the outside world in their own language.
Nevertheless, the emerging Cambodian elite defined in terms of
educational qualifications was very small. By 1939 the number of bacheliers
graduated from the Lycée Sisowath was barely half a dozen, and perhaps a
dozen Cambodians had been trained in tertiary institutions abroad. The
gap between political awareness and technical proficiency, which persisted
into the postcolonial period, can be blamed initially on French inertia in
the field of indigenous education, itself traceable to French unwillingness
to pay the bills.
Before the fall of France in June 1940, none of the officials in
Indochina had openly voiced doubts about the permanence of the French
presence in Asia. There were no moves in Cambodia, for example, to
widen the electorate, to introduce representative government on anything
other than a consultative basis, or to train Cambodians in a systematic way
to replace Frenchmen in the administration. In the sruk, however, some
devolution took place in the 1930s whereby experienced and senior local
officials, rather than Frenchmen, were allowed to prepare local budgets
and write periodic reports.22 The sense of irony among French officials, it
seems, was not highly developed. In 1939, elaborate ceremonies were
sponsored in Phnom Penh to honor the 150th anniversary of the French
Revolution, and the venue was the Place de la République.23
THE IMPACT OF WORLD WAR II
World War II—more precisely the period between June 1940 and October
1945—must be seen as a watershed in the history of Indochina. This is
particularly true of Vietnam, but French policies in Cambodia, springing
from weakness, and Cambodian responses to them differed sharply from
what had gone before. By the end of 1945, Cambodian independence,
impracticable and almost inconceivable in 1939, had become primarily a
matter of time.
Much the same state of affairs applied throughout Southeast Asia and
particularly in Burma and the Netherlands East Indies (now Indonesia).
The development of nationalism in Indochina differed in that France was
the only colonial power in the region to retain day-to-day control of its
possessions for the greater part of World War II. The French managed to
do so by making substantial concessions to the Japanese. Elsewhere in
Southeast Asia between 1942 and 1945, the Japanese jailed colonial
officials and ruled through local leaders, usually recruited from the ranks of
opponents of colonial rule. In Indochina, on the other hand, the French
sought to defuse nationalist thinking and activity by maintaining secret
police surveillance, by opening up their administration to local people, and
by liberalizing some of their policies. In the Cambodian case it can be
argued that this liberalization, and several events associated with it, gave
birth to elite Cambodian nationalism in the form it assumed until the
1970s.24
Phnom Penh, aerial view, 1970. Courtesy of Khmer Republic Ministry
of Information.
Five of these events are worth examining in detail: the Franco-Siamese
war of 1940–41; the coronation of Monivong’s grandson, Norodom
Sihanouk, in 1941; the so-called monks demonstration of July 1942; the
Romanization crisis of the following year; and finally, the Japanese coup de
force of March 9, 1945, that dismantled French control throughout
Indochina.
These events were played out against the background of Vichy rule in
Indochina, from July 1940 to March 1945, in the hands of Vice-Admiral
Jean Decoux.25 Vichy rule in some ways was more flexible, in others more
repressive and certainly more ideological than the governments provided
by the Third Republic had ever been. This was partly because officials, to
appease the Japanese and following ideological preferences of their own,
tended to follow a pro-Axis, anti-British line and partly because,
perceiving their vulnerability in Southeast Asia, they sought to retain
control while using very little of their depleted military forces.
Examples of their flexibility in Cambodia included raising the salaries
and widening the responsibilities of indigenous officials; encouraging an
enhanced sense of national identity linked to an idealization of the
Angkorean era and of Jayavarman VII in particular; and organizing
paramilitary youth groups along Vichy lines. These groups gave thousands
of young Cambodians their first taste, outside the sangha, of membership
in an extrafamilial group.
The regime was repressive as well. In late 1940 elected bodies (of some
importance in southern Vietnam especially) were abolished throughout
Indochina. After the monks’ demonstration, Nagara Vatta ceased
publication in 1942, and more than thirty Cambodians were imprisoned
for long terms following that demonstration. These moves had their
greatest impact on the people who were to lead Cambodia’s nationalist
movement in the 1940s and 1950s. They had little effect in the
countryside as far as we can tell.
What the French were trying to do in France and in Indochina in
these years was to endure the war. They hoped to reemerge even after an
Axis victory with some identity and much of the French empire intact. In
Cambodia and Vietnam, part of the process involved harking back to
better days and to warlike heroes and heroines like Joan of Arc, the Trung
sisters, and Jayavarman VII. In Cambodia the French chose to work
through the institutions of the monarchy, whereas those who opposed
them became in the course of the war increasingly antimonarchic, setting
the stage for factions that have endured in Cambodian politics ever since.
The Franco-Thai war broke out in late 1940 because the pro-Japanese
Thai government of Phibul Songgram, aware of French military weakness,
seized the opportunity to seek to regain territories in Cambodia and Laos
that the Thai had ceded earlier in the century to the French. These actions
fit their irredentist nationalism of the period. On land, poorly equipped
French forces suffered a series of defeats. At sea, however, French aircraft
and warships scored a major victory over the Thai fleet in January 1941.26
Frightened by the possibility of further embarrassments to the Thai, the
Japanese forced the French to negotiate in Tokyo. The upshot of these
negotiations was that Battambang, most of Siem Reap, and parts of Laos
—a total of slightly more than sixty-five thousand square kilometers
(twenty-five thousand square miles)—were ceded to the Thai for the
derisory sum of six million piastres.27 The French managed to retain
Angkor for their Cambodian protégés, but the humiliating loss of territory
so embittered King Monivong that for the remaining months of his life
(he died in April 1941) he refused to meet with French officials or to
converse with anyone in French.
Monivong’s death posed a problem for French officials concerned with
the possibility, however faint, of dynastic squabbling so soon after their
military defeat.28 Throughout the 1930s, Monivong’s son, Prince
Monireth (1909–75), had been favored for the throne although French
officials had also proposed the candidacy of Prince Norodom Suramarit, a
grandson of Norodom’s who was married to Monivong’s daughter. Rivalry
between Norodom and Sisowath’s descendants had surfaced occasionally
in the colonial era, largely because many members of the royal family had
little to do besides quarrel with each other. In the aftermath of the war
with Thailand, the French governor-general, Jean Decoux, favored the
selection of Suramarit’s son, Norodom Sihanouk (b. 1922), then a student
at a French lycée in Saigon. His ostensible rationale for preferring
Sihanouk to Monireth was the need to heal the rift between the Norodom
and Sisowath branches of the family. It is also likely that, of the two
candidates, Sihanouk seemed more malleable and less independent.
The shy young man who came to the throne in April 1941 and was
crowned in October seemed an unlikely candidate to dominate Cambodian
politics for over sixty years. He was an only child whose parents were
estranged; in his memoirs he has recalled his lonely, introverted
childhood.29 Although an excellent student and a good musician, he had
received no training for the throne, and for the first few years of his reign
he worked closely with his French advisers.
When he started out, Sihanouk made modest efforts at reform to
bolster his image with the Cambodian people and to compensate for the
reclusiveness of his grandfather’s last months. The annual gift of opium
from the French to the king was canceled, Palace Minister Thiounn was
encouraged to retire, and the prince became active in Vichy-oriented youth
groups.30 His freedom of action was limited not only by French advisers
but also by the fact that by August 1941 eight thousand Japanese troops
had been posted to Cambodia. No one knew what the Japanese intended.
French military weakness and Japanese sympathy for certain
anticolonial movements evident throughout Southeast Asia by 1942 had
not passed unnoticed among the intellectuals—many of the members of
the sangha—who were associated with Nagara Vatta and the Institut
Bouddhique. Between 1940 and 1942, the paper took an increasingly pro-
Japanese, anticolonial line. During these years, at least thirty-two issues of
the paper were censored by the French, and in ten issues the lead editorial
was suppressed. Perhaps in some cases the censorship involved
overreaction on the part of the French. Nothing has yet been published
about Japanese financial support for the Cambodian nationalists at this
early stage, but some collaboration can be assumed and was actively sought
by Son Ngoc Thanh and his associates. The climax of the confrontation
between this group of Cambodians and the French occurred in July 1942
in the monks demonstration.31
Throughout the twentieth century the French had looked somewhat
warily at the Buddhist sangha in both Cambodia and Laos, noticing that it
offered the Lao and Khmer an alternative value system to the colonial one.
In Cambodia as in Thailand, the sangha was made up of two sects, the
larger known as the Mahanikay and the smaller, which enjoyed royal
patronage, as the Thammayut. Jurisdictional quarrels between the two,
which differed on no doctrinal matters but on several procedural ones,
were frequent, and because of the Thammayut’s palace and elite
connections, monks with antimonarchic ideas tended to gravitate to the
Mahanikay.
One of these monks, Hem Chieu (1898–1943), a teacher at the
advanced Pali school in Phnom Penh, was implicated in an anti-French
plot when he proposed to several members of the Cambodian militia vague
plans for a coup. A pro-French militiaman apparently informed on him,
and he was arrested with a fellow monk on July 17, 1942. Hem Chieu was
an important member of the sangha, and the manner of his arrest—by civil
authorities who failed to allow him the ritual of leaving the monastic order
—affronted his religious colleagues while handing nationalists of the
Nagara Vatta clique a cause célèbre. Over the next three days, the
nationalists engaged in secret conversations with the Japanese, seeking
their cooperation in sponsoring an anti-French demonstration in support
of the arrested monks. According to Son Ngoc Thanh, Japanese
authorities in Saigon (who had jurisdiction over their colleagues in Phnom
Penh) agreed in some fashion to sponsor the Cambodian rally planned for
July 20.32
On that morning more than a thousand people, perhaps half of them
monks, marched along Phnom Penh’s principal boulevard to the office of
the French résident supérieur, Jean de Lens, demanding Hem Chieu’s
release. The demonstrators were trailed by French, Cambodian, and
Vietnamese police agents who took photographs of them. The editor of
Nagara Vatta, Pach Chhoeun, enthusiastically led the march and was
arrested as he presented a petition to a French official inside the résidence.
Along with other civilian demonstrators rounded up over the next few
days, Chhoeun was quickly tried. The sentence of death imposed on him
was commuted to life imprisonment by the Vichy government—the same
sentence meted out to the murderers of Bardez seventeen years before. Son
Ngoc Thanh, who later admitted his involvement in planning the
demonstration, apparently hid in Phnom Penh for several days before
escaping to the Thai-controlled city of Battambang. By early 1943 he had
been offered asylum in Tokyo, where he remained for the next two years,
writing forlorn, infrequent letters to nationalist colleagues in Battambang,
pleading that they keep the nationalist flame alive and assuring them of
continued discreet Japanese cooperation.
The collapse of the demonstration suggests that Thanh and his
colleagues overestimated Japanese support and underestimated French
severity. The French, in any case, were eager to demonstrate that they
remained in charge. The march and Hem Chieu’s name, like the 1916
Affair and the Bardez incident, passed into Cambodian anticolonial
folklore, resurfacing in 1945 during the anti-French resistance and again,
among different groups, following the anti-Sihanouk coup of 1970. In
1979 after the Vietnamese invasion, a boulevard in Phnom Penh, formerly
named after King Monivong, was renamed in Hem Chieu’s honor. The
earlier name was restored in 1992. The ex-monk had died of illness on the
French penal island of Poulo Condore in 1943.33 In the short term the
demonstration accomplished nothing, and Sihanouk in his memoirs
dismissed it as “tragicomic.  At the time, he apparently accepted the view
of his French advisers that it was foolish and unjustified.
THE GROWTH OF NATIONALISM AND THE
RETURN OF THE FRENCH
The remaining three years of World War II are important for Cambodian
history, but they are difficult to study. French archives for the period
remain closed for the most part, and the French-controlled press for the
period, like Sihanouk’s unpublished chronicle, is largely ceremonial and
bureaucratic in emphasis. Nationalists fell silent, fled to Battambang, or
spent the years in prison. For these reasons the so-called romanization
crisis of 1943 is difficult to assess.
In 1943 the new French résident, Georges Gautier, announced his
intention to replace Cambodia’s forty-seven-letter alphabet, derived from
medieval Indian models, with the roman one. The transliteration was
worked out by the renowned philologist George Coedes; available samples
show that the system retained the phonetics of spoken Khmer quite well.
Gautier and his colleagues viewed the reform as a step toward
modernization, which in turn was seen unequivocally as a good thing. In a
pamphlet devoted to explaining the reform, Gautier attacked the
“Cambodian attitude to the world  as “out of date  (démodée) and
compared the Cambodian language to a “badly tailored suit. 34 The
addition of a supposedly more rational French vocabulary to romanized
Khmer, Gautier thought, would somehow improve Cambodian thought
processes. Citing the example of romanization in Turkey, while remaining
diplomatically silent about the romanization of Vietnamese, Gautier seems
to have believed that the virtues of the reform were as self-evident as what
he thought of as the primitiveness of the Cambodian mind.
Many Cambodians, however, and especially those in the sangha, saw
the reform as an attack on traditional learning and on the high status
enjoyed by traditional educators in Cambodian society. Cambodians in
civil life were less affronted by the reform, although Sihanouk has claimed
that he was on the point of abdicating over the issue. Despite these
objections, the reform was pushed vigorously by the French in 1944–45,
especially in government publications and in schools; the romanization
decree did not apply to religious texts. Nonetheless, when the French were
pushed aside by the Japanese in March 1945, one of the first actions of the
newly independent Cambodian government was to rescind romanization;
since then, no attempt has been made by any Cambodian government to
romanize the language.35 Once again, as was so often true in Cambodian
history, what the French saw as a self-evident improvement in the status
quo was seen by the Cambodians as an attack on the essential character of
their civilization, defined in part as what Cambodians believed had been
passed down from Angkorean times. Indeed, the decree abrogating the
reform mentioned that for Cambodia to adopt the roman alphabet would
mean the society would become “a society without history, without value,
without mores, and without traditions. 36
On March 9, 1945, romanization became, literally, a dead letter when
the Japanese throughout Indochina disarmed French forces and removed
French officials from their posts. The move was intended to forestall
French armed resistance; it also fit into Japanese plans to equip local forces
throughout Southeast Asia to resist the Allied landings that were expected
later in the year. On March 13, in response to a formal Japanese request,
King Sihanouk declared that Cambodia was independent and changed its
name in French from Cambodge to Kampuchea, the Khmer pronunciation
of the word.37 Sihanouk’s decree invalidated Franco-Cambodian
agreements, declared Cambodia’s independence, and pledged Cambodia’s
cooperation with the Japanese.
Two weeks after this declaration, Vietnamese residents of the city
rioted against the French, on the basis of a rumor that the French intended
to kill, or at least imprison, all Vietnamese residents in France. Disturbed
by the violence of these demonstrations, the Japanese intervened on the
side of the French, whom they herded into protective custody for the
remainder of the war. In early April, speaking to the newly reinforced
Cambodian militia, Sihanouk condemned French forces, which had been
unwilling to help Japan defend Cambodia against an unspecified enemy.
He urged Cambodians to “awaken.  It is likely that the speech reflected
the views of a Japanese political adviser, Lieutenant Tadakame, who was
assigned to the palace at about this time.38
Other steps toward independence taken in this period included
reinstituting the Buddhist lunar calendar at the expense of the Gregorian
one and using Khmer instead of French to identify government ministries.
Independence, of course, was relative; the Japanese remained in Cambodia
in force. At the same time, the summer of 1945—like the months of
March 1970 and April 1975 in certain ways—allowed a clique of
Cambodian intellectuals to interpose themselves between the monarchy
and the colonial or neocolonial power.
The period represented the first time that Cambodian patriotic ideas
could receive an open airing as well as the first time Cambodians were
encouraged to form politically oriented groups. On July 20 Sihanouk
presided over a rally commemorating the monks demonstration of 1942.
He was joined on this occasion by Pach Chhoeun, just released from jail,
and Son Ngoc Thanh, who had returned to Cambodia from Tokyo in
April.39 A speaker at the rally, not the king, regaled the crowd with a
litany of Cambodian patriotism, citing antimonarchic rebellions in the
1860s, the 1884–86 revolt, the 1916 Affair, the Bardez incident, and the
1942 monks demonstration. The speaker failed to mention that on only
one of these occasions, in 1884–86, had the Cambodian monarch chosen
the “right side.  But the message was not lost upon Sihanouk, and these
examples of nationalism, suppressed for the rest of his reign, in the late
1940s and 1950s passed into the folklore of the Cambodian Communists
and the antimonarchic wing of the Democratic Party.
Another strand of postwar Cambodian nationalism consisted of
officially sponsored antipathy to the Vietnamese, and clashes took place in
this stirring, disorderly summer between Khmer and Vietnamese
inhabitants of southern Vietnam. At the same time, Sihanouk took few
steps, other than that of forming a paper alliance with the Vietnamese
regime in Saigon, to formulate a joint strategy to resist the French when
they returned. Sihanouk’s mind at this time is difficult to read. It is likely,
however, that the obscure antiroyalist coup of August 9–10, 1945,
sponsored by some hotheaded members of Cambodian youth groups,
deepened the king’s hostility toward such figures as Pach Chhoeun and
Son Ngoc Thanh.
Of seven participants later arrested by the French, five became active in
the anti-French guerrilla movement, and three of these joined the
forerunner of the Cambodian Communist Party. At the end of August,
after the Japanese surrender, Sihanouk’s chronicle reports that a nationalist
demonstration attracted thirty thousand people, including armed members
of the militia and members of various youth groups. Four days later, a
referendum engineered by Son Ngoc Thanh allegedly drew 541,470 votes
in favor of independence, with only two opposed. There is no evidence
that a full-scale referendum had taken place, although a proposal for one
apparently circulated as a memorandum to officials for their approval. The
figures represent an attempt by Son Ngoc Thanh to bolster his bargaining
position vis-à-vis the French, who had begun to filter back into southern
Indochina under British auspices at first. Throughout September, Thanh
urged his colleagues to join him in an alliance with the Vietnamese to
resist the French. Many of these men disagreed with Thanh and sought to
gain Cambodia’s independence separate from Vietnam’s. Some even
preferred the return of the French to Thanh’s continuing in power. For
these reasons, when French officials arrested Thanh on October 12, 1945,
in Phnom Penh, no one objected. Thanh himself seems to have been taken
completely by surprise. That very morning he had presided, as the prime
minister of Kampuchea, at the reopening of the Lycée Sisowath. He had
lunch in the Saigon central prison.40
With Thanh removed from the scene (he was to spend most of the
next six years in comparatively comfortable exile in France), King
Sihanouk opened negotiations with the French, who appeared to many to
have been ready to reimpose their control as in 1940–41. The modus
vivendi signed by French and Cambodian delegates in early 1946,
however, was a vaguely promising document, diluting French control and
offering Cambodia membership in two nonexistent confederations. One of
these, the Indochinese Federation, seems to have been little more than
Indochina with somewhat increased indigenous participation at the top.
The other, the French Union, was a diffuse and ambiguous brotherhood of
peoples who had been colonized by France, based on the shared experience
of French civilization. The agreement promised Cambodia a constitution
and the right to form political parties, but French control remained in such
fields as finance, defense, and foreign affairs. In other words, the French of
early 1946 had replaced the Japanese of the summer of 1945. They had
not, however, reconstituted the previous status quo.
10
GAINING INDEPENDENCE
It is easy to argue that French rule in Indochina effectively came to an end
in the summer of 1945. This did not appear to be the case, however, to the
new breed of French officials sent out by General de Gaulle’s government
to replace the people who had looked after the region up to 1945. During
the war, in fact, de Gaulle had made the recovery of the French empire,
and Indochina in particular, an important goal of his government in exile.
In Cambodia the French were forced in October 1945 to make
conciliatory gestures to the members of the indigenous elite whom they
needed to run the kingdom’s day-to-day affairs. These were the people
whose awakening the French had celebrated in the 1930s. They had
become patriots in the meantime and, from the French point of view,
intellectually belligerent. Many of them interpreted the summer of 1945
less as a humiliation of the French that had to be avenged than as a victory
for the Cambodians themselves. Cambodia, they argued, needed to regain
its independence. A leading convert to the cause, although he was quieter
than most, was King Norodom Sihanouk.
Once the modus vivendi had been signed in early 1946, the French
began to tidy up their colony. In Phnom Penh they restored the street
names honoring French colonial heroes and French events that had been
changed to Cambodian ones in 1945.1 Another step was to abolish the
newly instituted national holidays that honored Sihanouk’s declaration of
independence in 1945 and the monks demonstration of 1942. A third was
to place Son Ngoc Thanh on trial for treason, charging him with
collaboration with the Japanese (against whom, incidentally, the French
had only belatedly declared war).
THE DEVELOPMENT OF POLITICAL PARTIES
In this atmosphere of business as usual, the electoral act that came into
effect in the summer of 1946 opened up deep and unexpected fissures in
the Cambodian elite. For the first time in their history, Cambodians were
allowed to form political parties, and three sprang rapidly to life. As V.M.
Reddi has pointed out, all of these “were led by princes, all of them shared
the fear of neighboring countries, and all professed loyalty to the
monarchy. 2 The first and last of these characteristics should come as no
surprise, but the phrase “fear of neighboring countries  needs an
explanation.
In 1946–47 Thailand was still governed by the relatively radical civilian
regime that had been financing anti-Japanese, and subsequently anti-
French, guerrillas along the Cambodian frontier since the fall of the Phibul
government in the summer of 1944. In 1945 these groups formed into the
Khmer Issarak (“Free Khmer ), and a government in exile was hastily
assembled in Bangkok. Throughout this period, moreover, the Thai
retained control of the sruk in northwestern Cambodia that they had taken
over in 1941. These regions offered sanctuary to four of the twelve persons
implicated in the August 1945 coup, as well as to others, such as
Bunchhan Muul, who had participated in the monks demonstration and
were now unhappy with the return of the French. The new political parties
in Phnom Penh were fearful of Thai intrusions into Cambodian politics.
They were probably even more frightened, however, by developments
inside Vietnam, where Communist guerrillas in the south were threatening
French rule and a Communist government in the north enjoyed de facto
independence.3
There were, all the same, significant differences between the two
leading parties, the Democratic Party (Krom Pracheathipodei), led by
Prince Sisowath Yuthevong, and the so-called Liberal Party (Kanaq
Sereipheap; literally, “Freedom Group ), led by Prince Norodom
Norindeth. The difference between these two princes encapsulated the
differences between two wings of Cambodian opinion. Prince Yuthevong
(1912–47) had just returned from nearly a decade of higher education in
France, his wife was French, and he wanted Cambodia to practice the kind
of democracy he had admired in France. His party’s program called for
negotiating Cambodia’s independence as quickly as possible. Prince
Norindeth, on the other hand, was a conservative. As one of Cambodia’s
largest landowners, he believed that Cambodian politics should involve
educating the people—slowly—and maintaining a dependent relationship
with France. This was a view shared by many other members of the royal
family. The Liberals were clandestinely funded by the French, who were
fearful of the Democrats’ popularity. The third party, the Progressive
Democrats, led by Prince Norodom Montana, was insignificant and
quickly faded from the scene, but it was as conservative as the Liberal
Party, and it may have enjoyed a measure of support from the king and his
advisers.4
The Democratic Party attracted people who had been drawn in the
early 1940s to Nagara Vatta and the ideas of Pach Chhoeun and Son Ngoc
Thanh. Its strength came in large part from the Mahanikay sect of the
sangha, from younger members of the bureaucracy, from supporters of the
Issarak movement, and from Cambodia’s intellectual class (nak cheh dung
in Khmer). Some elements within the party favored violent action, an
alliance with Issarak guerrillas and perhaps, at this early stage, with the
Communist Viet Minh as well.5
The Liberal Party, on the other hand, sought to maintain the status
quo. The party drew its strength from elderly members of the government,
wealthy landowners, the Cham ethnic minority and the Sino-Cambodian
commercial elite. The party had strong provincial roots, it seems, especially
among chamkar (riverbank plantation) owners near Kompong Cham. Its
strength could be traced in large part to patronage networks in particular
regions.
Sihanouk in his memoirs related that he was drawn to neither of these
groups, and that neither sought him out. Many Democrats, indeed, seem
to have seen Sihanouk as a puppet of the French, and much of his conduct
in the 1946–49 period appears to bear this out. At the very least, Sihanouk
seems to have felt that the only way to regain his country’s independence
was by negotiating with the French in a friendly, diplomatic way. The
king’s distrust of the Democrats probably sprang from his generalized
suspicion of ideology, his traumatic experiences in the summer of 1945,
and perhaps the feeling that he was being disrespectfully upstaged.
In September 1946, soon after the parties had been formed, elections
for the Consultative Assembly were held to form a group to advise the
king about a constitution for the country. More than 60 percent of the
newly enfranchised voters went to the polls (a far higher percentage than
voted in elections in Thailand). The Democrats won fifty of the sixtyseven
seats; the Liberals, fourteen; independent candidates, three.
These results revealed the popularity of the Democratic Party among
Cambodian authority figures who were in a position to “deliver the vote. 
In this election, as in others over the next twenty years or so, many
peasants voted as they were told by people whom they habitually obeyed.6
As in the 1916 Affair, moreover, Cambodians—in this case, the
Democrats—showed a disconcerting ability to organize and inspire their
followers. In the case of the Democrats, these patrons would be local
officials, teachers, and members of the sangha while those who voted for
Liberal candidates were often endorsing their traditional economic
patrons. At the same time, the sub rosa connections between some
Democrats and the Issarak, and the connections that others made between
the party and earlier Cambodian patriots, such as Hem Chieu, probably
appealed to many voters more strongly than the Liberals’ program of
supporting the landowning elite. Indeed, the effects in the countryside of
the disappearance of French control between March and October 1945
have never been examined. It would seem likely that bandit gangs, the
principal target of the French-controlled Cambodian police in the colonial
era, grew in number and importance. Many of these by early 1946 were
referring to themselves as Issarak, and many peasants, especially at a
distance, probably thought of the bands as patriotic.7
Sihanouk was distressed by the Democrats’ victory, which he
interpreted as a rebuff. In his memoirs he is scathing about the party and
particularly about Prince Yuthevong, suggesting that his own unformed
political ideas were preferable, even in 1946, to Yuthevong’s. After more
than thirty years, he was still unable to respect Yuthevong, referring to him
and his followers dismissively as “demos. 
Because the Democrats now assumed that they had a mandate to
impose a constitution on the kingdom, rather than merely to advise the
king about one, and because the constitution they drafted in 1946–47
reduced the powers of the king, Sihanouk soon became even more
estranged from the constitutional process. Indeed, the 1947 Constitution
was modeled closely on the Constitution of the Fourth Republic in France.
In this document, real power devolved to the National Assembly and thus
to the Democrats, who held the majority of assembly seats.
But what did power amount to? The Democrats, like everyone else in
the kingdom, were handicapped because independence could no longer be
declared, as it had been in the summer of 1945. It had to be granted by the
French. Before the middle of 1949, however, the French made few
concessions to anyone in Indochina. Unable to deliver independence, the
Democrats began to squabble among themselves. This trend was
exacerbated by the death of Prince Yuthevong from tuberculosis in July
1947, the arrest of several high-ranking Democrats on spurious charges
later in the year (the so-called Black Star affair), and the assassination of
Yuthevong’s successor, Ieu Koeuss, in 1950.8 Even after the so-called
treaty of 1949 (discussed below) French police arrested a dozen leaders of
the party on charges, later dropped, that they were conspiring with Issarak
forces. The Democrats could do nothing about it; Cambodia’s
independence, as many of them had maintained since 1946, was a façade.
The Issarak armed struggle against the French, which had caused
serious disruptions to the Cambodian economy in 1946–47, slowed down
after Battambang and Siem Reap were returned to Cambodian control in
1947, and a regime unsympathetic to Issarak aspirations soon afterward
came to power in Bangkok. In 1949, moreover, several thousand Issarak,
particularly those opposed to the Viet Minh, took advantage of an amnesty
offered them by Prime Minister Yem Sambaur. As non-Communist
resistance to the French decreased, moreover, the Democrats were in less
of a position to reply to spurious French charges that they supported the
Viet Minh.
Another factor that handicapped the Democrats was that the people
who held economic power in the kingdom—the French, members of the
royal family, Chinese, and Sino-Cambodians—opposed the kinds of
disorder that a real struggle for independence would have entailed. Most of
them were doing well. If they were involved in politics at all, they
supported the Liberal Party, as did the French administration. This meant
that the Democrats were short of funds with which to influence officials,
win elections, or finance an armed insurrection. The Democrats, forming
the majority of the National Assembly (and thus theoretically enjoying
political power), were in fact powerless to impose their will on the elite,
the French, or their electorate—whose views, in fact, were rarely sought.
Ensconced in the National Assembly and hampered by a constitution
that encouraged factional splits, the Democrats were cut off intellectually,
economically, and physically from most of Cambodia’s ordinary people.
The only weapon available to them was to impede the orderly procedures
of government by refusing to pass bills or to ratify agreements. As cabinet
followed cabinet through a series of revolving doors—for, unlike in the
British system, no elections followed these parliamentary crises—
Cambodia’s government ironically came more and more to resemble the
government of the Fourth Republic from which its members were so eager
to liberate themselves. Moreover, governments in Paris often held power
so tenuously and for such short periods that Cambodians of any political
persuasion, as Sihanouk was to discover in 1953, seldom encountered
coherent French policies to oppose or experienced ministers who were
qualified to negotiate. In fact, for reasons that are not entirely clear
(although financial motives were important), no French governments
before 1953–54 showed any willingness to take France out of Indochina.
By the end of 1949, all the same, the French appeared to have partially
caved in, creating fictive independent regimes in Indochina. The move
enabled the United States to grant financial aid to these “governments 
and indirectly to the French, who were bogged down in the First
Indochina War. The treaty signed with Cambodia at that time granted
what Sihanouk would later call “50 percent independence. 9 The treaty
allowed Cambodia some freedom of maneuver in foreign affairs as well as
an autonomous military zone embracing Battambang and Siem Reap.
Control over finance, defense, customs, and political resistance remained
in French hands, but as Sihanouk has asserted, a process had begun that
would be difficult to reverse. The Democrats opposed the treaty as
inadequate, but it came into force all the same.
Cambodian classical dancer, Phnom Penh, 2003. Photo by Douglas
Niven.
The French had several reasons for compromising at this point with
Cambodia. The war throughout Indochina had intensified, and the
Communist victory in China now provided the Viet Minh with an arsenal,
a sanctuary, and an ally. The Soviet acquisition of nuclear arms in 1949
was to be followed in early 1950 by the conclusion of a thirty-year pact
with the People’s Republic of China. Beginning in 1948–49, the French
sought increased military aid from the United States on the grounds that
they were no longer engaged in a colonial war but were fighting a crusade
against Communism. To many in the United States and France, the
outbreak of the Korean War in June 1950 confirmed this line of argument,
and U.S. aid flowed into Indochina in ever-increasing amounts.
THE GROWTH OF THE LEFT
The history of the next four years is crucial to an understanding of what
has happened in Cambodia ever since. Three trends need to be discussed.
The first is the waning of the Democratic Party and the eclipse of the
National Assembly. The second, related to this, is the flowering of
comparatively right-wing political groupings and anti-Communist military
leaders, who often enjoyed the favor of the king. In fact, officials
concerned with these groupings, including Nhek Tioulong and Lon Nol,
reappeared in several of Sihanouk’s cabinets in the independence period.
More important, perhaps, the consolidation of left-wing resistance to the
French inside Cambodia, a process that began in 1950 and concluded in
1951 with the foundation of a recognizably Cambodian Communist Party,
also dates from this period. In a sense, these three pieces remained on the
board throughout Sihanouk’s rule.
The fading of the Democrats can be traced to French reluctance to
negotiate with them, the king’s perennial hostility, and a shift by some
opportunistic members of the party to a more royalist stance in order to
gain preferment. Moreover, even their traditional disruptive role in the
assembly was curtailed for much of the period because Sihanouk saw to it
that the assembly was almost never in session.
Nonetheless, in 1951 he yielded to pressure to elect a new assembly in
accordance with the constitution. The Democrats, perhaps sensing a trap,
said that they were unwilling to go to the polls because of increasing
insecurity in the countryside. When the Liberals and several hastily formed
right-wing parties (one led by a middle-echelon bureaucrat, Lon Nol)
threatened to contest the elections with them, the Democrats changed
their minds.
The results resembled those of 1947, at least on the surface, for the
Democrats captured fifty-five of the seventy-eight contested seats.
Ominously, from the Democrats’ point of view, some 498 different
candidates had presented themselves for these seats, with little hope of
winning, and had siphoned off tens of thousands of votes. For this reason,
as well as the persistent strength of Liberal candidates, the Democrats
attracted less than half the total vote, polling 148,000 while the Liberals
attracted 82,000 voters and the various new parties attracted nearly
100,000. It was clear, as Michael Vickery has pointed out, that “any
movement which could unify the right could immediately cut the ground
from under the Democrats. 10
Soon after the victory, Sihanouk persuaded the French to permit Son
Ngoc Thanh to return from exile in France. In his memoirs, Sihanouk
explains the action by referring to Thanh’s friendship with his father,
Prince Suramarit, but he may have thought, along with his French
advisers, that bringing Thanh back might divide the Democrats while
neutralizing Thanh himself as political threat. In any case, Thanh’s return
to Cambodia on October 29, 1951, was melodramatic. Thousands of
people greeted him when he arrived at Phnom Penh airport, and
thousands more lined the route into the city. It took the 300-car cortege
almost an hour to cover the ten kilometers (six miles) involved. French
intelligence officials estimated the crowds at more than half a million—an
almost incredible indication of the organizational capacities of the
Democrats and of the extent of popular support, partly for Son Ngoc
Thanh himself and partly for an early solution to the problem of
continuing dependence.
On the very day of Thanh’s return, the French commissioner, Jean de
Raymond, was murdered by his Vietnamese houseboy. The two events
have never been publicly linked by scholars of the period, although the
coincidence is remarkable. A clandestine Communist broadcast, two weeks
later, managed to touch all the bases by asserting:
For the French, the death of Raymond means
the loss of a precious collaborator. For the
puppets, it means the loss of a generous master.
For the Cambodian people, Raymond’s death
means the end of a great enemy. For Buddhism,
his death means that a devil, which can no
longer harm religion, has been killed.11
Thanh was politically inactive for the remainder of 1951, refusing
several cabinet posts. In January and February 1952, however, he tested the
water by touring the provinces with his old friend, Pach Chhoeun, recently
named minister of information by the Democrats. This tour, which played
down Sihanouk’s importance, infuriated the king and convinced the
French that Thanh was being encouraged by the Americans, who had
provided public address systems for Pach Chhoeun. Soon after returning
to Phnom Penh, Thanh founded a newspaper called Khmer Krok
(“Cambodians Awake ), explaining the title in his first issue: “We know
that the Cambodian people, who have been anaesthetized for a long time,
are now awake. . . . No obstacle can now stop this awakening from moving
ahead. 12
Soon afterward, on March 9, 1952, the seventh anniversary of the
Japanese coup de force, Son Ngoc Thanh fled the capital with a radio
transmitter and a handful of followers, the most eminent being a leftist
intellectual named Ea Sichau. Within a month, Thanh had set up his
headquarters along the Thai border in the northern part of Siem Reap,
joining forces with an Issarak band under the leadership of Kao Tak.
Between 1952 and the Geneva Conference in 1954, Thanh and his
supporters were aided to an extent by Thai intelligence agencies. Within
his own zone, he experimented with a loosely regimented ideology that he
labeled national socialism, traceable in part to his admiration for the
Japanese political institutions he had observed in exile during World War
II.13 It is unclear whether he believed that by going into exile in the
Cambodian mountains he could remain in command of the independence
movement, as he had seemed to be on his triumphal return to Phnom
Penh, but his efforts to win over pro-Communist guerrillas were
unsuccessful, and only a few hundred people—most of them idealistic high
school students—followed him into the maquis. After independence
Thanh’s importance faded, and his following decreased. In the late 1950s
and 1960s he eked out a shadowy existence working for the Thai and the
Vietnamese in their efforts to destabilize Sihanouk’s regime. His
nationalistic fervor through 1957 or so is difficult to question, but his
motives for abandoning Phnom Penh in 1952 are difficult to figure out.
Perhaps he overestimated the extent of his support among the non-
Communist Issarak (or, conversely, underestimated Communist support
among the guerrillas). French intelligence reports assert that he still
enjoyed the support of some of the older Democrats in Phnom Penh and
perhaps he hoped for international support as well. After his exile,
however, he was no longer a force to be reckoned with, either by Sihanouk
or by the French.14
By the time of Thanh’s defection in 1952, Communist-controlled
guerrilla bands, operating in cooperation with the Viet Minh, occupied
perhaps a sixth of Cambodia’s territory and tied down several thousand
French troops. Two years later, at the time of the Geneva Conference,
some estimates suggested that Communist forces controlled more than
half the kingdom.
Where had they come from? When the Indochinese Communist Party
(ICP) was founded in Hong Kong in 1930, it included no Cambodian
members, and indeed only a handful of ethnic Khmer had joined the party
before the end of World War II.15 In 1945–47, however, Viet Minh forces
made an effort to support “liberation struggles  in Laos and Cambodia. At
the same time, as we have seen, the Thai government had a policy of
aiding all anti-French guerrillas in Indochina, and the Khmer Issarak,
operating along the Thai frontier and in the Thai-controlled sruk of
Battambang and Siem Reap, included men who later formed right-wing
and left-wing factions. Left-wingers included the pseudonymous Son
Ngoc Minh (in fact a former monk, Achar Mean), Sieu Heng, and Tou
Samouth. On April 17, 1950, twenty-five years to the day before the
Communist “liberation  of Phnom Penh, the First National Congress of
the Khmer Resistance was held in the southwestern part of the kingdom
under the leadership of Son Ngoc Minh. The congress, in turn, established
the Unified Issarak Front, dominated by ethnic Cambodian members of
the ICP. According to a history of the Cambodian Communist Party
prepared in 1973, there were only forty of these at the time. As Ben
Kiernan has pointed out, however, hundreds more had already been
trained in Communist political schools set up under Vietnamese auspices
as early as 1947. The most famous of these, founded in 1950, was named
after the dissident monk Hem Chieu.16
The ICP claimed to have dissolved itself in early 1951, and separate
Communist parties were soon formed in Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam.
The Khmer People’s Revolutionary Party (KPRP) was founded in
September 1951. Its statutes, translated from Vietnamese into Khmer,
were drawn from those of the “newly constituted  party in Vietnam.
According to party records, the KPRP at this stage had perhaps a
thousand members; French intelligence in 1952 estimated Communistcontrolled
Issarak forces as numbering about five thousand.17 This latter
figure is probably an underestimate, because the French appear to have
been unable to infiltrate the party and because it was in their interests, and
in those of their client, King Sihanouk, to play down estimates of
Communist popularity, especially in public statements. As impatience with
French control increased among many segments of the population and as
Vietnamese guerrillas elsewhere in Indochina moved from strength to
strength, these pro-Vietnamese forces in Cambodia grew in numbers,
efficiency, and cohesion. So did the KPRP. By July 1954, eight months
after independence, the party had an estimated two thousand members,
many of whom were to seek refuge in Vietnam following the Geneva
accords. Another index of the party’s growth was the fact that French
authorities in 1952 believed that taxes and contributions levied by
revolutionaries among the population amounted to the equivalent of half
the national budget.
Although the Vietnamese cadres in these guerrilla units gradually
relinquished their positions to ethnic Khmer, who were always in control
of the KPRP, it is clear that these leaders in the anti-French resistance
differed in several ways from their counterparts in the Democratic Party
and elsewhere along the political spectrum. For one thing they had come
to see their struggle as part of an international movement, connected with
Marxist-Leninist laws of history. At another level the liberation of
Cambodia from the French did not mean, for them, the continuation of
the status quo among Cambodians or the intensification of a supposedly
traditional animosity between Cambodians and Vietnamese. They saw
liberation from the French, in other words, as a stage in the Cambodian
revolution rather than a goal. Moreover, without being puppets of the
Vietnamese, the KPRP’s leaders in the early 1950s accepted Vietnam’s
leadership in the struggle to liberate Indochina from the French and in the
formation of socialist parties throughout the region. In terms of relative
power, such a policy made sense. Seen from another perspective, both the
French and Sihanouk tried hard to equate anti-French resistance (as
opposed to a policy of negotiated independence) with a pro-Vietnamese,
pro-Communist, and therefore un-Cambodian betrayal. What was being
betrayed, of course, were the hierarchical social arrangements that had
characterized Cambodia throughout its history. In 1952–53, in fact,
Sihanouk and his entourage frequently and absurdly labeled Son Ngoc
Thanh a Communist. A decade later, he reached for the fascist label to
describe his former prime minister, then allegedly on the payroll of the
United States.
The interplay between nationalism and internationalism inside the
Cambodian Communist movement, as in many others elsewhere in the
world, plagued the party throughout its history. Should Cambodian
interests (whatever they were) come first? What was Cambodian
socialism? And how did this, in turn, fit into the history and the
alignments of the Vietnamese? By denying any socialist or internationalist
component in Cambodian nationalism, one could proclaim Cambodia’s
intrinsic greatness, refer repeatedly to Angkor, and make racist slurs against
the Vietnamese. This was the route that Sihanouk chose to follow in the
late 1960s, and it was also followed by Lon Nol and at several points by
the Pol Pot regime. Radicals also employed it occasionally in the early
1950s to gain support. In a speech delivered in November 1951, for
example, a Communist spokesman asserted that
the Cambodian race is of noble origin. It is not
afraid of death, when it is a question of fighting
the enemy, of saving its religion, and of
liberating its fatherland. The entire race follows
the Buddhist doctrine [sic] which places death
above slavery and religious persecution. King
Yasovarman is a remarkable example.18
By seeking legitimacy in the Cambodian past, in antimonarchic heroes,
and in aspects of the Buddhist religion, these radicals cast a wider net than
the people around King Sihanouk were able or willing to do. They saw
independence as a goal in itself, having little effect on the structure of
Cambodian society or on their own place inside it. They saw little value in
mobilizing the Cambodian people or in destabilizing the regime. For these
reasons, heroes like Siwotha, Hem Chieu, and Pou Kombo—favored by
the Issaraks, by some of the Democrats and by Communist propaganda at
this early stage—quickly disappeared from textbooks and ideology. The
fate of these heroes under successive regimes forms an interesting leitmotif
in Cambodian history. After years of neglect they reemerged under the
Khmer Republic, alongside many former Democrats, only to vanish again
under Pol Pot, whose official ideology, while retaining a pro-Angkorean
slant, also stressed the impersonality of the regime’s organization. Heroes
were ephemeral; the revolutionary organization (angkar padevat) endured.
To complete the cycle, some of the discredited heroes reemerged in 1979
under the PRK, providing new names for Phnom Penh streets—names
that were altered yet again when Sihanouk became king in 1993.19 It was
also in 1979 that a five-towered depiction of Angkor Wat on the
Cambodian flag, favored by the Issarak in the 1950s, replaced the threetowered
one favored by previous regimes and reinstated in 1993.
Cambodian university students in France were another source of
recruits for Cambodia’s Communist movement. Between 1945 and 1960,
several hundred of these young men and women were exposed to an
intoxicating mixture of radical politics, personal freedom, and anticolonial
solidarity. Some were recruited into the French Communist Party; many
more perceived a wide gap between French ideals, life in France and
French colonial performance. Others, going further, saw clear connections
between prerevolutionary France, prerevolutionary Russia, and twentiethcentury
Cambodia, ruled by what they saw as a feudal, reactionary elite.
Sihanouk’s suppression of the Democratic Party (discussed below)
accelerated the radicalization of many young Khmers—including such
future leaders of DK as Saloth Sar (Pol Pot), Ieng Sary, Son Sen, and
Khieu Samphan.
SIHANOUK AND THE ACHIEVEMENT OF
INDEPENDENCE
Throughout the first few months of 1952, the Democrats in the National
Assembly continued as best they could to thwart Sihanouk’s policies. Son
Ngoc Thanh remained a distant threat. French intelligence sources
estimated that almost two-thirds of the kingdom was no longer under the
day-to-day control of the Phnom Penh government. To Sihanouk and his
conservative advisers, the time had come for a dramatic series of gestures
to gain the country’s independence forcibly from France and to maintain
themselves in power.
In a scathing speech to the assembly in early June 1952, Sihanouk
declared, “All is in disorder. Hierarchy no longer exists. There is no
rational employment of talent. . . . If it is right to be dissident, this means
that all the best patriots will seek refuge in the forest. 20 Soon afterward,
with the connivance of the French, Sihanouk staged a coup against his
own government. Moroccan troops secretly brought up from Saigon for
the purpose surrounded the National Assembly, and the king dismissed
the Democrats from the cabinet. No shots were fired. Sihanouk assumed
power as prime minister, appointing his own cabinet and leaving the
Democratic-controlled assembly to wither on the vine. At this point, he
demanded a mandate from his people, promising to deliver complete
independence within three years, i.e., before June 1955. Although no
referendum was carried out at this time, Sihanouk acted as if his mandate
had been granted and began what he was later to call his crusade for
independence.
Although the coup had been peaceful, demonstrations against it broke
out in Cambodia’s lycées, where antimonarchic, pro-Democrat sentiment
was strong. Radical Cambodian students in France referred to Sihanouk as
a traitor to the nation. In a vituperative manifesto issued to the king on
July 6, 1952, the students called on him to abdicate, blaming him for
recent French military attacks, for dissolving the assembly, and for
negotiating with the French instead of fighting them.21 The manifesto
went on to accuse Sihanouk’s ancestors Sisowath and Norodom of
collaborating with the French against what they called national heroes.
The remainder of 1952, it seems, was a trying time for Sihanouk, as the
French in effect decided to call his bluff.
He was aided by the Democrats’ intransigence. The assembly refused
to approve his government’s budget in January 1953. Declaring the nation
to be in danger, Sihanouk dissolved the assembly, promulgated martial
law, and ordered the arrest of several Democratic assemblymen, who were
now deprived of parliamentary immunity. As V.M. Reddi asserted,
Sihanouk was acting out a well-planned scenario. He justified it informally
by telling a French correspondent, “I am the natural ruler of the country . .
. and my authority has never been questioned. 22 He was appealing to the
people over the heads of the elected officials, just as he now planned
(without saying so at the time) to appeal directly to the French.
The king’s newly acquired political energy and his insistence upon
independence shocked many French and members of the royal family.
Some journalists came to terms with the king’s awakening by labeling him
insane, perhaps because he had been what they called comical and exotic
(i.e., cooperative) for so long.
In February 1953 Sihanouk announced that he was traveling to France
for his health—a tactic he was often to employ during the remaining years
of his reign. In fact, as he revealed in his memoirs, he departed with
meticulously prepared dossiers listing outstanding matters to be discussed
and negotiated with the French. His illness was political but the stakes
were high. When he arrived in France, he wrote immediately to the aged
and constitutionally powerless French president, Vincent Auriol, warning
him that “I have based my future as king and that of my dynasty on the
policy of adhesion to the French Union and collaboration with France, to
which I am and shall be loyal. 23 He added that if the Communists
invaded Cambodia, he could not guarantee that his subjects would act to
defend French interests.
Auriol’s advisers apparently thought that Sihanouk’s long letter and
another that arrived soon afterward were alarmist, and Auriol waited two
weeks to answer them. When he did he said only that he had studied the
letters with care and asked Sihanouk to lunch. At that point, officials in
the French government concerned with Indochina respectfully told the
king to return to Cambodia, hinting that he might even be replaced as
king.24
For the next month or so, Sihanouk traveled slowly homeward,
pausing to give press and radio interviews in Canada, the United States,
and Japan in which he publicized Cambodia’s plight and the intransigence
of the French. He used this tactic of publicizing supposedly confidential
discussions for the remainder of his life. In 1953, however, it was a bold
course to follow, for he was gambling not only with the French and
potential foreign allies but also with the opposition at home, with the
Vietnamese, and with the KPRP.
He arrived back in Phnom Penh in May and dramatically offered his
life in exchange for Cambodia’s independence. Negotiations in Paris
proceeded slowly, so in June the king went into voluntary exile, first to
Thailand, where he was not made welcome, and then to the autonomous
military region of Siem Reap, where he took up residence at his villa near
Angkor Wat and refused to speak with French officials in Phnom Penh.
In Vietnam the war was going badly for the French, and it had become
increasingly unpopular at home. Sihanouk’s increasing resistance to the
French and the prospect of increased fighting in Cambodia caused them to
consider his demands more seriously than they had planned.
In October 1953 the French caved in and granted the king authority
over Cambodia’s armed forces, judiciary, and foreign affairs. Their
economic hold on the kingdom, however—particularly in the importexport
sphere and in the highly profitable rubber plantations—remained
intact. Despite these remnants of colonial rule, Sihanouk is correct, on
balance, in interpreting the French collapse at this point as a personal
victory. Using the same communications network that in 1916 and again
in 1951 had frightened French authorities, Sihanouk now ordered officials
in the sruk between Siem Reap and Phnom Penh to organize
demonstrations in his favor. As he drove back to his capital on the second
anniversary of Son Ngoc Thanh’s return from exile, hundreds of thousands
of people lined the road, uncertain perhaps what independence would
mean but at this stage happy enough to applaud their king and what they
hoped would be an end to fighting. Soon afterward, Sihanouk was
officially proclaimed a national hero.25
In the short term, France’s departure from the scene had three effects.
In the first place, Cambodia’s independence and the relatively low level of
fighting in the kingdom between November 1953 and the middle of 1954
strengthened the hand of Sihanouk’s delegation to the Geneva Conference
in the summer of 1954. The delegation, led by Nhek Tioulong, took a
stubborn view of indigenous Communists, who were allowed no part in
the deliberations and were also frozen out by Vietnamese Communist
delegates eager to earn concessions for Vietnam and, to a lesser degree, for
pro-Vietnamese Pathet Lao forces in Laos.26 Surprisingly, perhaps, many
Cambodian radicals continued to accept leadership from Vietnam
throughout the 1950s and 1960s. For over a thousand of them, 1954
marked the beginning of a long march that would take them to exile in
Hanoi, not to return to Cambodia until the early 1970s when most of
them were killed by U.S. bombing, by Lon Nol’s army, or by internal
Communist purges at the instigation of Pol Pot, who by then was the
leader of the Cambodian Communist Party. A few hardy survivors of this
group were given cabinet positions in the post-1979 government of
Cambodia, established by the Vietnamese in the wake of their invasion.27
Another consequence of Sihanouk’s so-called crusade was that the
Democratic Party and Son Ngoc Thanh, who had failed to deliver
independence, lost much of their appeal. At the same time, figures further
to the right who had remained loyal to the king, such as Lt. Col. Lon Nol,
Nhek Tioulong, and Penn Nouth, now gained in stature and were favored
for government posts.
Perhaps the most lasting consequence of independence in 1953 was
that Sihanouk felt he had obtained a mandate to govern Cambodia as he
saw fit. The subsequent decimation of the KPRP and the eclipse of the
Democrats gave him the impression (encouraged by many foreign visitors
and by his entourage) that his crusade had been not only successful but
also astute and that the suffusion of Cambodia the state by Sihanouk the
man was a salutary political development. A consequence of this, especially
evident in the 1960s, was that Sihanouk felt no obligation to be at peace
with Thailand and South Vietnam or to grant freedom of action to people
he disliked. Just as he had gone it alone in 1953 and won, so Cambodia
could be independent from its perennially hostile neighbors by courting
the friendship of such faraway powers as China, France, and Yugoslavia.
While this was going on, the forces that had been unleashed in the
summer of 1945 fell into disrepute. Sihanouk and his advisers, never
partial to social change, correctly saw that these forces endangered the
stability of the country. And, as we have seen, the inherent stability of
Cambodia, often the subject of absurd romanticism among colonial
writers, has rested throughout nearly all of Cambodian history on the
acceptance of the status quo as defined by those in power.
What, then, did independence mean? The removal of the French
probably meant little to most Cambodians, who continued to pay taxes to
finance an unresponsive government in Phnom Penh (or Udong or
Angkor) whose so-called royal work, almost by definition, removed it from
contact with the people and made officials, for the most part, selfcentered,
concerned with status, and ill at ease with anyone else’s
aspirations. It was certainly just, in other words, to remove the Cambodian
elite and the comparatively small intellectual class from French control.
That removal left these people free not to govern themselves so much as to
govern others without vigorously seeking their consent. Because the people
in the countryside had never been asked to play a part in any government,
they saw few short-term rewards in resisting those in power, who were
now at least Cambodians rather than French or Vietnamese.28 Although
Cambodia celebrated its independence at the end of 1953 and gained
military autonomy after the Geneva Conference in 1954 when Viet Minh
troops and their Cambodian sympathizers took refuge in North Vietnam,
it can be argued that the elections of 1955, and the emergence of Sihanouk
as Cambodia’s major political actor, marked a sharper turning point in
Cambodia’s political history.
The elections had been stipulated by the Geneva Conference as part of
a healing process for the non-Communist segments of Indochina. The
Democrats were weakened by factional quarrels and by nearly three years
away from power, but they were still the best-organized political party, and
their leaders looked forward to winning the elections. Many younger
Democrats opposed the apparently pro-American policies Sihanouk had
been following since Geneva and argued that Cambodia should be neutral
in its alignments. They shared this line with a pro-Communist Party that
had just taken shape in Cambodia, known as the Krom Pracheachon, or
People’s Group. Cambodia’s hard-core Communist Party, founded in
1951, remained concealed from view. Younger Democrats moved their
own party to the left in late 1954, pushing such stalwarts as Sims Var and
Son Sann aside and replacing them with antimonarchic neutralists like
Keng Vannsak and Svay So and with even more radical figures including
Thiounn Mumm, then a member of the French Communist Party.
Mumm cooperated with Saloth Sar, who had spent some months in the
Vietnamese maquis in 1953–54, to coordinate the Democrats’ tactics with
those of the Pracheachon. Many observers in Cambodia at the beginning
of 1955 expected the two parties to win a majority of seats in the assembly.
The revival of the Democrats and the popularity of the Pracheachon
distressed conservative politicians in Phnom Penh and enraged the king
who, as the self-proclaimed “father of Cambodian independence,  had
hoped to call the country’s political shots. Outside the capital and
intellectual circles his own popularity remained high. A referendum in
February 1955 asked voters to choose between a white ballot with his
picture on it and a black one inscribed with the Cambodian word for no.
The vote was enhanced by the fact that discarding the king’s picture was
seen as disrespectful and grounds for arrest. Then and later, Sihanouk was
adept at reinforcing his genuine popularity with bullying tactics so as to
gain almost 100 percent approval.
Gambling that he was now more popular than the political parties,
Sihanouk abdicated the throne in early March without warning and
entered political life as a private citizen after designating his father, Prince
Suramarit, as the new king. Soon afterward, Sihanouk founded a national
political movement, the Sangkum Reastr Niyum, usually translated as
People’s Socialist Community. To be a member of the movement, one had
to abjure membership in any other political group, as Sihanouk’s intention
was to smash the existing political parties. Several of these folded in the
course of 1955, and their leaders rallied to the Sangkum. This left the
Liberals, the Democrats, and the Pracheachon to contest the elections.
The leader of the Liberals, Prince Norodom Norindeth, was offered a
diplomatic post in Paris, which he accepted, leaving his party in disarray.
Shortly after founding the Sangkum, Prince Sihanouk, as he was now
called, went to Bandung in Indonesia to attend a conference of African
and Asian political leaders. Before he left he declared that he had
abdicated so as to defeat the “politicians, the rich, and the educated, who
are accustomed to using . . . their knowledge to deceive others and to place
innumerable obstacles in the path over which I must lead the people. 29 In
his absence civil servants were bullied into joining the Sangkum in large
numbers, a move which deprived the Democrats of several hundred
registered members.
Sihanouk’s tactics took the Democrats and Pracheachon by surprise, as
did his decision at Bandung to co-opt their neutralist foreign policy while
holding onto U.S. military and economic aid. At the conference, Sihanouk
was lionized by many anti-Western heads of state, including Indonesia’s
Sukarno and China’s Zhou Enlai. When he returned to Cambodia, he
hastened to garnish his new importance with electoral approval.
The 1955 elections, the last before the 1990s to be freely contested by a
range of political parties, also marked the first attempt of many to mobilize
the security apparatus of the state in favor of one particular group. Between
May and September 1955, several opposition newspapers were shut down
and their editors were imprisoned without trial. Democrat and
Pracheachon candidates were harassed, and some campaign workers were
killed in a rough-and-tumble campaign waged against vaguely defined
special interests on behalf of Cambodia’s so-called little people. Voters
were intimidated on polling day as well, and several ballot boxes thought
to contain Democrat ballots conveniently disappeared. When the votes
were counted, Sangkum candidates had won all the seats in the assembly
and over three-quarters of the vote. The understaffed International
Control Commission, set up by the Geneva Conference to oversee the
elections, was unable or unwilling to sort out campaign offenses, perhaps
because the generally pro-Western Indian and Canadian representatives
outvoted the pro-Communist Poles on the commission.30
A new kind of politics had overtaken and replaced the less robust
constitutional variety that had endured by fits and starts since 1947.
Politics in Cambodia between 1955 and 1970 were characterized by
Sihanouk’s monopoly of political power and the emergence of Cambodia
onto the international stage. Sihanouk’s style was widely popular and the
kingdom prospered. As in the past, however, this prosperity was to a large
extent dependent on the behavior of Cambodia’s neighbors and on the
policies of larger, more distant powers. Cambodia was neutral and at
peace, in other words, for as long as its neutrality served the interests of
other states. Sihanouk’s formidable political skills may have postponed the
apocalypse that overtook his country in the 1970s, but they did not prevent
it. In terms of what happened then and later, many Cambodians in recent
years have seen his time in power as constituting a golden age. Others have
come to perceive his ruling style as domineering and absurd, closing off
any possibility of pluralism, political maturity, sound planning, or rational
debate. By treating Cambodia as a personal fief, his subjects as children,
and his opponents as traitors, Sihanouk did much to set the agenda,
unwittingly, for the lackadaisical chaos of the Khmer Republic, the horrors
of Democratic Kampuchea, and the single-party politics of the
postrevolutionary era.
11
FROM INDEPENDENCE TO CIVIL
WAR
For fifteen years Prince Sihanouk and the Sangkum Reastr Niyum
overshadowed Cambodian life. Because Sihanouk was removed from office
by his own National Assembly in 1970, it is convenient, but misleading, to
interpret this period in terms of his decline, a process that few observers
noted at the time. Nonetheless, by 1966, Sihanouk had reached a turning
point in his political career and his grip on the political process had begun
to weaken, along with his self-confidence. These changes can be linked to
the intensification of the Vietnam War as well as to indigenous political
factors. In any case, the assembly elected in 1966, although allegedly made
up of loyal Sangkum members, was the first since 1951 whose members
the prince had not handpicked himself. In 1970 these were the people who
voted Sihanouk out of office.
THE ASSEMBLY ELECTION
The Democrats, Sihanouk’s principal opponents in 1955, were driven from
politics before the 1958 elections. Sihanouk’s continuing vindictiveness
toward this group is curious because by 1956 the party had virtually ceased
to exist and nearly all its members had joined the Sangkum. Nonetheless,
in September 1957, claiming that the Democrats were endangering his
policies, Sihanouk summoned five leaders of the party to a debate on the
grounds of the royal palace in Phnom Penh. Large crowds were assembled
nearby, and the proceedings were broadcast over loudspeakers. Intimidated
by the crowds, the Democrats were unable to voice any clear opinions, and
after three hours of bullying by Sihanouk and his associates, they were
allowed to leave. On their way out of the palace enclosure they were beaten
by soldiers and police, and one of them was hospitalized. Over the next
few days, thirty or forty people suspected of Democrat leanings were
beaten in Phnom Penh, and Sihanouk, before going overseas for a
vacation, secretly decorated some of the soldiers involved in the palace
beatings.1 Soon afterward, the Democratic Party dissolved itself and
disappeared from the political scene.
In 1958, therefore, the only opposition to the Sangkum was the leftwing
Pracheachon, which had gathered over twenty thousand votes in
1955. In a foolhardy gesture, the group nominated a handful of candidates,
but all but one withdrew before election day in the face of police
repression. The remaining candidate, Keo Meas, earned 350 votes out of
several thousand cast in his electoral district. After the election he went
underground to avoid arrest. His candidacy marked the end of pluralistic
electoral politics in Cambodia until the 1990s, aside from a brief interlude
under Lon Nol.
Over the next two years, Sihanouk’s government survived a series of
plots against it that were hatched in Saigon and Bangkok with the
knowledge of the United States.2 The plots made the prince more
suspicious than ever of his neighbors and their American patrons, whose
cool behavior toward him contrasted sharply with the courtesy he was
shown by leaders and diplomats from France, Indonesia, and the
Communist bloc. In the Cold War atmosphere of the time, Sihanouk was
labeled pro-Communist by the United States. For his part, the plots
enabled Sihanouk to label his opponents un-Cambodian, a tactic followed
by the next two governments in Phnom Penh.
By the early 1960s Sihanouk had forged a tactical alliance with
elements of the Cambodian left as well as with Communist China. These
alignments had four short-term effects. The first was a drift to the left of
Cambodia’s print media, which were mostly overseen by the prince
himself. Related to this was a tolerance on the part of the government
toward left-wing teachers in Cambodia’s schools. Many of these men and
women, in turn, were recruited into Cambodia’s clandestine Communist
movement in these years and drew some of their students along with them.
The second effect was the election to the assembly in 1962 of several
leftists educated in France, such as Khieu Samphan, Hou Yuon, and Hu
Nim. Without admitting their Communist leanings, these men joined the
Sangkum and were rewarded by the prince, as their colleagues in the
Pracheachon were not.
A third effect was Sihanouk’s decision in 1963 to cut off U.S.
economic and military assistance. In a related move he nationalized
Cambodia’s banks and the country’s export-import trade. The
circumstances surrounding these decisions, which followed the
assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem in Vietnam, are still unclear. It is possible
that Sihanouk expected France and China to pick up where the Americans
left off, but those two powers, although remaining friendly to Cambodia,
were unwilling to make that kind of open-ended financial commitment.
Nationalization, like many Cambodian policies, seems to have been
decided on by Sihanouk on the spur of the moment, with the intention of
making Cambodia a genuinely socialist state. The fourth effect of
Sihanouk’s tolerance of the Left was that nearly all of Cambodia’s radicals
were able to survive the 1950s and early 1960s without being shot or going
to jail. Right-wing opponents of the prince, whom he perceived as working
for foreign powers, were less fortunate.
In 1960 Sihanouk’s father, King Suramarit, died. After a series of
maneuvers, Sihanouk had himself named Cambodia’s chief of state with
his mother, Queen Kossamak, continuing to serve as a monarch for
ceremonial purposes. This decision severely weakened the monarchy by
which Cambodia had been governed continuously for over a thousand
years.
For the newly elected assembly, Sihanouk sought candidates who were
younger and better educated than those whom they replaced. Naturally
distrustful of intellectuals, the prince was convinced that he could
manipulate, cajole, and outmaneuver them once they were in the assembly
or elsewhere in the government, as he viewed the assembly as a personal
possession and a rubber stamp. The 1962 elections, which occurred soon
after war broke out in South Vietnam between Vietnamese loyal to the
pro-U.S. government of Ngo Dinh Diem and others who sought to unify
the country under the Communist leadership in Hanoi, reflected the
Prince’s widespread popularity and bolstered his self-confidence.
As it did so often in Cambodia’s recent history, the country soon
became a hostage to Vietnamese events. Sihanouk’s efforts to play both
sides against each other and to keep Cambodia out of the war are
reminiscent of King Chan’s maneuvers in the nineteenth century. Between
1961 and 1970, Sihanouk’s policies saved thousands of Cambodian lives.
When he was overthrown, however, he broadcast an appeal to his
“brothers and sisters  asking them to wage a civil war. Whether the three
hundred thousand deaths that occurred after that—inflicted by North and
South Vietnamese, U.S., and contending Cambodian forces—could have
been avoided had he stepped aside is impossible to say.
The Vietnam War destabilized the Cambodian economy and
eventually drove Sihanouk from office. Otherwise, he would probably not
have been overthrown, and Cambodia’s Communists would not have come
to power. The Cold War tensions that were being played out in Vietnam,
at enormous human cost, had little relevance in Cambodia, but this did
not stop Cambodia from becoming engulfed in the conflict. In a sense
Cambodian history between 1965 and 1993, if not beyond, was
orchestrated from southern Vietnam and from such faraway cities as
Hanoi, Washington, and Beijing.
In 1965 over two hundred thousand U.S. troops swarmed into South
Vietnam to prop up the Saigon government and to prevent a Communist
victory. Within a year the United States was exploding hundreds of
thousands of tons of ordnance in Vietnam while absorbing and inflicting
tens of thousands of casualties. In the meantime, North Vietnamese troops
had moved into position in the south to reinforce locally recruited
guerrillas. As the war intensified it threatened to spill over into Cambodia,
as it had already spilled over into Laos.
Throughout 1965 Sihanouk repeatedly proclaimed Cambodia’s
neutrality and sought guarantees from outside powers for his country’s
frontiers. In 1964 he broke off diplomatic relations with the United States
and sought without success to convene an international conference that
would lead to the neutralization of Southeast Asia and the withdrawal of
U.S. troops. By 1966 he had also allied himself secretly with the North
Vietnamese, a decision, though probably impossible to avoid, that was a
major reason for his being deposed four years later. Sihanouk felt certain
that the Vietnamese Communists would win the war. He wanted to
remain in power and to keep Cambodia independent; in the meantime, he
wanted to prevent Cambodians from being killed. An alliance with the
North Vietnamese, so long as it was kept secret, seemed a good way of
accomplishing these objectives.
Under the terms of the alliance, the North Vietnamese were allowed to
station troops in Cambodian territory and to receive arms and supplies
funneled to them from North Vietnam and China via the Cambodian port
of Sihanoukville. In exchange they recognized Cambodia’s frontiers,
promised to leave Cambodian civilians alone, and avoided contact with the
Cambodian army. South Vietnamese and U.S. officials soon learned about
the presence of North Vietnamese troops in Cambodia and the
movements of weapons and supplies, without knowing the details of the
agreement Sihanouk had reached. Sihanouk denied for several years that
any Vietnamese troops were in Cambodia, which angered the United
States and South Vietnam but enhanced the image of injured innocence
that the prince projected to the outside world.
In September 1966, Sihanouk’s political idol, Charles de Gaulle, then
president of France and a supporter of neutralization in Southeast Asia
agreed to make a three-day visit to Cambodia, shortly before the assembly
elections were to take place. The prince had little time or energy to stagemanage
both occasions, and he felt sure that de Gaulle’s visit was the more
important of the two. Positions in the assembly, however, were coveted by
many middle-class Cambodians, partly because holding office offered
them informal opportunities for making money. While making plans for
de Gaulle’s visit, Sihanouk was besieged with petitions for endorsement
from hundreds of prospective candidates. Reluctant to antagonize some of
his supporters, he threw the balloting open, and over 425 Sangkum
candidates competed with each other for eighty-two assembly seats.
President de Gaulle’s visit came to a climax with a floodlit performance
by the Cambodian royal ballet on the terraces of Angkor Wat. The French
president made a warm speech in which he praised his host and urged the
neutralization of Southeast Asia. Sihanouk had worked hard to make the
visit a success—it cost the equivalent of several million dollars, and the
foreign media coverage was favorable and extensive—and it may have been
the high-water mark of the prince’s years in power. When the general left,
however, Sihanouk was faced with a national election in which, for the
first time since 1951, the candidates owed him nothing.
In the elections, candidates favoring local interests triumphed over
those whose main credentials were based on their loyalty to Sihanouk.
Some writers (including Sihanouk at the time) have called the results a
triumph for reactionary forces, and certainly the elections were the first
since 1951 in which candidates had to relate to the voters. To gain
support, many candidates made unrealistic promises, like their
counterparts in other countries, and spent large sums of money. Many
candidates were ideologically conservative, but so were most Cambodians,
particularly in rural areas. Interestingly, however, the three leftist
candidates who had paid close attention to their constituents over the years
were reelected in 1966 with increased majorities.
The new prime minister, General Lon Nol, the commander of
Cambodia’s army, was known for his loyalty to the prince, his aloofness,
and the army’s loyalty to him. He also attracted the support of middleaged
conservatives, particularly among the Sino-Cambodian commercial
elite. These men thought Sihanouk’s style embarrassing and his economic
policies disastrous. Many of them, like most of the army officer corps,
regretted Cambodia’s break with the United States and objected to the fact
that the nationalization of imports and exports had moved this profitable
sector of the economy into the hands of often-incompetent government
officials. As many members of the new assembly shared these feelings of
impatience, the stage was set for a confrontation between Sihanouk on the
one hand and the assembly and the commercial elite on the other.
SIHANOUK’S POLICIES
In the 1960s an American correspondent wrote that “Cambodia Is
Sihanouk,  and this view was echoed by a French writer, who entitled a
chapter of her book about Cambodia “He Is the State,  echoing the “I am
the state  adage attributed to the seventeenth-century French monarch
Louis XIV.3 Both assertions were true up to a point. The prince’s
insistence that he was the embodiment of Cambodia, and that
Cambodians were his children, made it hard for visitors, journalists, or
diplomats to disentangle genuine national interests, problems, and
priorities from those that Sihanouk proclaimed on a daily basis.
Given that situation and knowing what happened afterward, it is
difficult to reconstruct Cambodian politics and society during the
Sihanouk era without considering Sihanouk or lowering the volume of his
voice. The prince’s speeches, the journals he controlled, and the approving
words of foreign writers often drown out other documents and speakers.
So did his censorship. On the other hand, looking at the 1960s largely in
terms of the prince’s decline may encourage one to exaggerate the
importance of his opposition (particularly among the Communists), to
minimize his real accomplishments, and to blame the prince for the chaos
that beset his country after he was overthrown.
To be fair to him, considering the choices he faced in the 1960s, his
foreign policies now seem more defensible than his domestic ones. The
key elements of these policies were his friendship with China, his search
for as many foreign patrons as possible, and his secret alliance with North
Vietnam. A corollary of these policies was his distrust of the United States,
Thailand, and South Vietnam.
A formal alliance with North Vietnam, as I have suggested, was
probably impossible to avoid. Had he forbidden the Vietnamese
Communist forces to move across Cambodia, they would have done so
anyway and would have decimated any Cambodian forces sent against
them. They did just that in 1970–71, when the post-Sihanouk government
tried to drive them out of the country. Had the prince allied himself with
South Vietnam, the Vietnamese civil war would have spilled over into
Cambodia, as it did in 1970 when thousands of Cambodians died or were
wounded. Nor would an alliance with Thailand have protected his country
against the North Vietnamese. Neither Thailand nor South Vietnam was
prepared to make the promises to Cambodia that Sihanouk extracted from
Hanoi. His friendship with China was an attempt to find a counterweight
to his neighbors as well as a power capable of restraining the North
Vietnamese in Cambodia. It was also a response to what Sihanouk
interpreted as the genuine friendship and support offered him by the
Chinese premier, Zhou Enlai.
Sihanouk’s efforts to keep Cambodia independent and to avoid the
Vietnam War were probably unrealistic, and his expectations of genuine
friendship from Communist powers were naïve. But what choices did he
have? In the late 1950s the United States had made it clear that its own
policies, as far as Cambodia was concerned, would always favor Thailand
and South Vietnam, a favoritism that included a tolerant attitude toward
the anti-Cambodian policies of the two regimes. Sihanouk believed with
some justification that he was surrounded by hostile powers and that the
United States would never take him seriously. He was also motivated by a
genuine patriotism and saw no future for his country if it were swept into
the Vietnam War.4
The two most consistent aspects of Sihanouk’s domestic policy were
his intolerance of dissent and his tendency to identify his opponents with
foreign powers. To be a Cambodian, in his view, meant being pro-
Sihanouk, just as Sihanouk himself, the father of the Cambodian family,
was pro-Cambodian. There was no real tradition of pluralist politics in the
country, and throughout the Sihanouk era dissent was viewed as a mixture
of treason and lèse majesté.
Sihanouk was a skillful politician, fond of keeping his opponents off
balance by seeming to favor first one and then another. Campaigns
targeting the Left followed campaigns launched against the Right, and
rivals’ suggestions were occasionally appropriated as his own—as in the
choice of a neutralist foreign policy in 1955. Placing himself in the middle
of the Cambodian political spectrum—envisioned as a tricolor with radical
red Khmer (Khmers rouges) on one side and conservative blue Khmer on
the other—Sihanouk, the white Khmer, refused to make formal alliances
with any group. Technically neutral (and profoundly Francophile), he was
totally in charge.
OPPOSITION TO SIHANOUK
Between 1955 and the late 1960s, opposition to Sihanouk’s rule was poorly
organized and ineffective. Except among a handful of radicals, segments of
the elite, and parts of the monastic order, the prince was probably almost
as popular as he claimed to be. His advisers told him, and he probably
came to believe, that there was no basis for dissent in Cambodia. The
visible alternatives, once the Democrats had been brushed aside, were the
Pracheachon and the Khmer Serei, or Free Khmer, and neither was a
formidable force.
The Khmer Serei comprised paramilitary units made up of ethnic
Khmer who were recruited, paid, and armed by the Thai and the South
Vietnamese and was more or less under the command of the discredited
exile Son Ngoc Thanh. Physically on foreign soil and patronized by
foreign powers, they were easy targets for Sihanouk’s vituperation. When
members of the movement were caught inside Cambodia, they were tried
in secret and then executed by firing squads. Films of the executions were
shown publicly for several weeks.
As for the Pracheachon, its members were often under surveillance,
and its newspapers, even though they toed a pro-Sihanouk, anti-U.S. line,
were frequently shut down. Several Pracheachon members were killed or
put in prison between 1957 and 1963. The clandestine components of the
Communist movement, led by Tou Samouth until his assassination by
Sihanouk’s police in 1962 and thereafter by Saloth Sar, had little success in
maintaining the pre-1954 momentum they had commanded among rural
people. In the cities, however, Sar and his colleagues, as well as the
Communists in the assembly, were popular with intellectuals, monks, and
students in their last years of school. To these people, Communist teachers
like Saloth Sar and his wife, Khieu Ponnary, who never spoke of their
party affiliations, offered an inspiring contrast, in terms of their firm
ideology and correct behavior, to the lackadaisical and corrupt Cambodian
elite. As teachers they were dedicated and strict, but it was their moral
fervor, expressed primarily as a hatred of privilege, corruption, and
injustice, that endeared them to their students and to many in the
Buddhist monastic order.
In early 1963 Sihanouk launched an anti-Left campaign by
broadcasting the names of thirty-four people who he claimed were plotting
to overthrow his government. The list named several leftist schoolteachers
in Phnom Penh (including Saloth Sar and Ieng Sary), leftists in the
assembly, and some intellectuals recently favored by the prince.
Melodramatically, Sihanouk summoned all of them to an audience and
offered to turn the government over to them. When they refused the offer
and pledged loyalty to him, he allowed most of them to resume their
former jobs.5
Saloth Sar and Ieng Sary, however, were also members of the
clandestine Communist Party’s Central Committee, which until then had
been safe from Sihanouk’s police. It seems likely that Sihanouk knew
nothing of their party affiliations, but they feared that he did and they fled
to the Vietnamese border where they sought protection from Vietnamese
Communist troops in an encampment they later referred to as Office 100.
Left-wing teachers who remained behind became cautious about
expressing their views, as did the members of the underground party in
Phnom Penh, now headed by Nuon Chea and Von Vet. For the next three
years, left-wing opposition to Sihanouk’s rule made little headway.
A stronger restraint on Cambodia’s Communists was imposed by the
North Vietnamese, whose alliance with Sihanouk would have been
threatened by indigenous resistance to his rule. They advised their
Cambodian colleagues to wait for a Vietnamese victory and to wage a
political as opposed to an armed struggle. This patronizing guidance gave
the Cambodians the options of doing nothing or getting caught by the
police; unsurprisingly, resentment began to build up among many of them.
Some felt, perhaps naively, that they had the same right to a national
revolution as did the Vietnamese. Their resentment, however, had a long
fuse and exploded only after Communist military victories in 1975.
SIHANOUK’S RULE: A BALANCE SHEET
Between 1955 and 1970, Sihanouk’s most positive contribution was to
keep Cambodia from being swept into the firestorm in Vietnam. Doing so
required skillful footwork, and he paid a price in the resulting animosity
from the pro-U.S. regimes in Saigon and Bangkok, whose leaders would
have been contemptuous of any Cambodian claims to genuine autonomy.
We can conclude that Sihanouk’s domestic record is mixed. Perhaps
the most positive aspect of the ramshackle ideology he called Buddhist
socialism was his insistence on large expenditures for education
(amounting in some years to over 20 percent of the national budget).
Unfortunately, the prince could not foresee the discontent that would
affect tens of thousands of high school graduates and hundreds of
university graduates in the late 1960s when they found it hard to obtain
well-paid employment. Some of these young men and women drifted into
the Communist movement, and many more blamed Sihanouk for their
plight.
Sihanouk’s identification with Cambodia’s poor, however sentimental,
did much to increase their feelings of self-worth and their identification
with the Cambodian state. Ironically, by raising their political
consciousness and their awareness of injustice, Sihanouk probably hastened
his own demise. His repeated references to Cambodia’s grandeur and
uniqueness may have misled some younger Cambodians into thinking that
they could successfully resist the Vietnamese and others, and that
Cambodia’s Communist revolution, when it occurred, would be purer and
more far-reaching than any so far.
Sihanouk also encouraged a certain amount of political participation
and debate by means of so-called national congresses held twice a year
outside the royal palace. In theory, any member of the Sangkum was
welcome to attend these meetings and express his or her political views.
The congresses dealt with uncontroversial issues and, like so much else in
Cambodian life, they were stage-managed by the prince, whose policies
were voted on by a show of hands. After 1963 the caliber of the debates
deteriorated, and Sihanouk used the meetings to abuse his enemies, to
defend himself (and Cambodia) against criticism, and to assert that
Cambodia was superior to its neighbors and, in ethical terms at least, to
most larger powers.
Another positive aspect of Sihanouk’s style was his capacity for hard
work. He often spent eighteen hours a day reading government papers,
and his energetic tours of the countryside put him in touch with literally
hundreds of thousands of ordinary Khmer. These contacts almost satisfied
his hunger for approval. His hyperactivity was a disadvantage, however,
because he preferred talking to listening and was unwilling or unable to
delegate authority, even on subjects he knew little about. He also perceived
ordinary Cambodians as his children—a view inherited from the French—
rather than as people capable of making choices or handling their own
affairs.
Phnom Penh in the 1960s was the prettiest capital in Southeast Asia,
and many Western journalists taking a break from the Vietnam War were
intoxicated by Cambodia’s charm. They wrote glowingly about Sihanouk’s
“island of peace,  the contented, peaceable Khmer, and Sihanouk’s
“charisma.  Culturally, life in the capital at least was very appealing.6 The
prince granted many of them interviews, which made excellent copy, but
unsurprisingly they said little about the despotic aspects of his rule or the
economic problems the country faced. Had they done so their visas would
not have been renewed. Indeed, for several months in 1967–68, on
Sihanouk’s order no foreign journalists were allowed into the country.
Aligned with these more positive aspects of Sihanouk’s ruling style,
and affecting everything he did, were his vanity, his impatience with
advice, and his unwillingness to face Cambodia’s economic, infrastructural,
and social problems. He rode roughshod over opposition. Hundreds of
dissidents disappeared—and are presumed to have been assassinated—
during his years in power, and several thousand peasants were killed in the
aftermath of a Communist-led uprising in the northwest in 1967.
Like many of his ancestors, Sihanouk saw Cambodia as a family and as
a personal possession. He also treated it as a theatrical troupe. Many of his
subjects, particularly older people, agreed to play supporting roles and
endowed him with supernatural powers. So did the courtesans who
surrounded him and played roles in his films. Sihanouk’s genuine
patriotism and his capacity for hard work were marred by his narcissism
and willfulness. Chosen by the French as an instrument for their policies,
he was unable to withstand the pressures that built up against him and his
country in the late 1960s, when his patrons and enemies overseas
conspired to dismantle his neutral stance and when the people he had
generously seen through school and college refused to be treated as his
children forever.
SIHANOUK’S DECLINE
The first of several turning points in Sihanouk’s rule probably came in
November 1963 when he broke off the U.S. military aid program that had
provided the pay for his armed forces and, in effect, a 15 percent
subvention to the national budget. No similar patron stepped forward,
although China provided some military equipment over the next few years,
and the Cambodian army declined as an effective combat force. In related
decisions Sihanouk nationalized the import-export sector of the economy
and closed Cambodia’s privately owned banks. His motives in cutting off
U.S. aid were related to his desire to stay out of the Vietnam War and to
maintain good relations with members of the Communist bloc. The other
decisions were parts of an effort to gain control over the economy and to
cripple the Chinese and Sino-Khmer business elite in Phnom Penh.7
The two decisions had unforeseen effects. Sihanouk’s break with the
United States made him vulnerable to pressures from the Right and
lowered military morale. The nationalization of foreign trade soon
encouraged the commercial elite to trade clandestinely with Communist
insurgents in Vietnam. By 1967 over a quarter of Cambodia’s rice harvest
was being smuggled to these forces, which paid higher prices than the
Cambodian government could afford. At the same time the government
lost revenue from the export taxes it normally charged on rice. Foreign
trade was also hampered by the loss of entrepreneurial skills and
government ineptitude.
To stem the outflow of rice, a decision was made in early 1967 that
army units should gather the rice surplus in several areas, pay government
prices for it, and transport it to government warehouses. In western
Battambang, near Samlaut, resentment against this decision flared into
armed conflict. Tens of thousands of farmers fled or were herded into the
forest, where they were pursued and wiped out by government forces and
hastily assembled vigilante groups. Years later, Sihanouk remarked
offhandedly that he had “read somewhere that ten thousand  people had
been killed in this repression, and other sources confirm the figure. The
killings, of course, had been carried out under his orders.8
The uprising unnerved the prince because one purpose of the alliance
with North Vietnam, in his view, had been to bring Cambodian
Communists under stricter Vietnamese control. Sihanouk found it
inconceivable that his “children  could move against him because of
genuine grievances connected with his policies—in this case the forced
collection of rice. He suspected the Vietnamese of double crossing him but
was in no position to do anything about it.
Increasingly suspicious of the Left, Sihanouk was too proud to make
overtures to Cambodia’s conservatives, whom he had vilified so often. His
tactics after Samlaut were to maintain his attacks on the Left, to attempt
to hold onto the middle ground, and to seek to renew diplomatic relations
with the United States in the hope of reinstating economic and military
aid. By then, however, most U.S. policymakers perceived Cambodia as a
side issue to their country’s involvement in Vietnam and wanted relations
with Sihanouk only on their terms.
Because of losses of revenue as a result of clandestine trading,
mismanagement of state-controlled industry, and extravagant
expenditures, Cambodia’s economy in 1967–68 was faltering. Agricultural
problems had never attracted Sihanouk’s sustained attention. These
included low yields, poor irrigation, and excessive interest charged on loans
to farmers, and they were being exacerbated by a rapidly increasing
population and fluctuations in world prices. By 1967 these problems had
become severe, yet Sihanouk’s reaction was still to ignore them.
Increasingly, he turned over political power to Lon Nol and Sirik Matak.
He hoped that something would turn up to save the country’s economy or
that the people in charge would perform so badly as to again enhance his
power. Sensing his vulnerability, however, his enemies gathered strength.
Between 1963 and the end of 1966, Cambodia’s leading Communists
were camped along the Vietnamese border under Vietnamese protection.
Communists later took credit for Sihanouk’s break with the United States,
but in fact their influence on events in these years was close to zero, and
Saloth Sar, the party’s leader, spent more than twelve months in 1965–66
outside the country.
In 1965 Sar was summoned to North Vietnam for consultations.
Walking north along the Ho Chi Minh Trail, he took two months to
reach Hanoi, where he was taken to task for his party’s nationalist agenda.
The secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party, Le Duan, told him to
subordinate Cambodia’s interests to Vietnam’s, to help Vietnam defeat the
United States, and to postpone armed struggle until the time was ripe.9
Bruised by these attacks, Sar said nothing to antagonize his patrons.
Soon afterward, however, he traveled to China and was warmly welcomed
by radical officials. Inspired by the early phases of the Cultural Revolution,
Sar transferred his loyalties to a new set of patrons and a more vibrant
revolutionary model. With hindsight, it is interesting to speculate about
the effect of events in China at the time on the members of the
Cambodian delegation. How did they react to Mao Zedong’s flight to
Shanghai, his swim in the Yangtze, and his inauguration of the Cultural
Revolution? And how did they interpret Defense Minister Lin Biao’s
widely publicized speech emphasizing the importance of self-reliance in
Communist revolutions? The speech must have worried the Vietnamese,
for whom Chinese military aid was crucial in the war with the United
States; on the other hand, it may have secretly pleased those Khmer who
saw Vietnamese assistance as a form of suffocation.
In any event, the visit to China was a turning point in Sar’s career and
perhaps in the history of Cambodian Communism as well. Prudently,
however, he said nothing to the Vietnamese about his change of heart.
Back home, he established his headquarters in a remote, heavily wooded
section of the country. For the next four years, with a group of likeminded
colleagues, he lost touch with everyday Cambodian life, polished
his Utopian ideas, nourished his hatreds, and thought about seizing power.
Over a year later, just before the Vietnamese Communists launched
the Tet Offensive, the Communist Party of Kampuchea (CPK), as it now
styled itself, inaugurated an armed struggle against Sihanouk, striking out
from its bases in the northeast and the northwest. The struggle,
insignificant at first, gathered momentum over the next two years, and by
early 1970 insurgent forces had occupied, or rendered unsafe for others to
occupy, nearly a fifth of Cambodia’s territory. In the cities, meanwhile,
many students and teachers who had been alienated by Sihanouk’s
narcissistic rule found themselves enthralled by the possibilities of the
Cultural Revolution in China and the May 1968 uprisings in France. For
many young Cambodians these movements seemed to offer viable
alternatives to the perennial corruption and conservatism of Cambodian
politics.
During this volatile time, Sihanouk busied himself with making feature
films over which he exercised total control as writer, director, producer,
and leading actor. Making them offered relief from a political game that
had become too complex for him to win and too dangerous to play. The
prince also scrambled to realign himself with the United States while
reasserting his friendship with that country’s enemies in Vietnam. These
contradictory moves discredited him even further with his enemies inside
the country, and by late 1969 high-ranking conservative officials had
begun plotting against him. Whether or not they received encouragement
from officers in the newly reopened U.S. embassy is a matter for
speculation.10
The most prominent of the plotters was Sihanouk’s cousin, Sisowath
Sirik Matak, a career civil servant who had become deputy prime minister
under Lon Nol. Matak had grown impatient with Sihanouk’s
mismanagement of the economy, and he was dismayed by the presence of
Vietnamese bases on Cambodian soil and by his cousin’s impulsive,
contradictory foreign policy. Pro-Western himself, and with links to
Phnom Penh’s commercial elite, Matak was tired of playing a supporting
role in Sihanouk’s never-ending opera.
Lon Nol, the prime minister, was a more enigmatic figure. He is not
known to have objected to the prince about the cutoff of U.S. aid, the
alliance with the Communists, or the shipments of arms through
Cambodian territory. Indeed, many of his officers became rich by dealing
in arms, medicines, and supplies for which the Vietnamese paid
generously. By 1969, however, Cambodian troops were under fire from
Communist insurgents, and the Vietnamese administration of many base
areas had drawn complaints from local people. Lon Nol was also under
pressure from some of his officers who saw Cambodia’s isolation from U.S.
aid and, by implication, from the Vietnam War as impediments to their
financial ambitions. Moreover, Lon Nol was not immune to flattery, and
he came to see himself as uniquely capable of saving Cambodia from the
thmil, or “unbelievers,  as he called the Vietnamese hammering at his
country’s gates.
While pressures were mounting, Sihanouk’s interest in governing
declined. Years of overwork had worn him down, and his inability or
unwillingness to attract and keep young, competent advisers had begun to
tell. His decision to open a casino in Phnom Penh to raise revenue had
disastrous results. In the last six months of 1969, thousands of
Cambodians lost millions of dollars at its tables. Several prominent people,
and dozens of impoverished ones, committed suicide after sustaining
losses, and hundreds of families went bankrupt. Sihanouk, no gambler
himself, was indifferent to the chaos he had caused, and his own
expenditures continued to mount. A climax of sorts occurred in November,
when an international film festival, stage-managed by the prince, ended
with one of his own films, “Twilight,  being awarded a solid-gold statue
sculpted from ingots donated for the purpose by Cambodia’s national
bank. When Sihanouk left the country for his annual holiday in January
1970, many people who remained behind interpreted his departure as a
flight.
THE COUP OF 1970
Over the next two months, Sisowath Sirik Matak and his colleagues
struggled to put Cambodia’s house in order, shutting down the casino and
privatizing the banks. Matak traveled secretly to Hanoi to see what could
be done to remove Vietnamese troops from Cambodian soil. Documents
signed by Sihanouk agreeing to the Vietnamese bases infuriated him.
Deliveries of supplies to Vietnamese forces inside the country were halted,
and the stage was set for a full-scale confrontation with Vietnam—a
scenario Sihanouk had struggled to avoid for fifteen years.
In early March, riots broke out in Phnom Penh against the embassies
of North Vietnam and its surrogate in South Vietnam, the National
Liberation Front. The riots got out of hand, and both buildings were badly
damaged. From Paris, Sihanouk condemned the violence, although the
riots had occurred with his permission. Conditions were ripening for the
coup d’état that Matak had been considering for several months, and the
timetable was accelerated because it was feared that Sihanouk might soon
return. On the night of March 17, Matak and three army officers visited
Lon Nol at his house, threatened him with a pistol, and made him sign a
declaration supporting a vote against the prince scheduled for the
following day in the National Assembly. When he signed the document,
as if aware of the long-term consequences of his action, Lon Nol burst into
tears.11
Sihanouk dismissed from office; graffito in Phnom Penh, 1970.
Author’s photo.
What followed was an anticlimax and in sharp contrast to the operatic
style of Sihanouk’s politics. The National Assembly, as it was entitled to
do, voted 86–3 to remove its confidence from the prince and to replace
him as chief of state, pending elections, with the relatively colorless
president of the assembly, Cheng Heng. Lon Nol remained prime minister
with Matak as his assistant. The coup was popular among educated people
in Phnom Penh and in the army, but rural Cambodians were totally
unprepared for it. Many of the plotters wanted to declare Cambodia a
republic but delayed doing so after pro-Sihanouk riots broke out in several
provinces.
Meanwhile, the prince, who learned of the coup while traveling home
via Moscow, was in Beijing. His first thought was to seek political asylum
in France, but after talks with Zhou Enlai and the Vietnamese premier,
Pham Van Dong, he agreed to take command of a united front
government allied to North Vietnam, whose Cambodian forces would
consist largely of the Communists his army had been struggling to destroy
only a month before. At the end of March the prince broadcast an appeal
to his “brothers and sisters  (they were no longer his children, apparently)
to take up arms against Lon Nol. Pro-Sihanouk riots broke out almost
immediately in the eastern part of the country. Fueled by panic, arrogance,
and racism, Cambodian army units massacred hundreds of unarmed
Vietnamese civilians near Phnom Penh on the dubious grounds that they
were allied with the Communists. They were certainly easier to locate than
the North Vietnamese armed forces and easier to kill, but the viciousness
of the massacre, and Lon Nol’s failure to express regret, evaporated the
goodwill the regime had earned overseas.
For most Cambodians, moreover, the idea that Vietnamese forces
should leave Cambodia was more popular than the coup itself. After Lon
Nol gave the Vietnamese Communists forty-eight hours to leave the
country—probably the most unrealistic command in modern Cambodian
history—many Cambodians were enraged to learn that the Vietnamese
had ignored him, and tens of thousands poured into the armed forces to
drive the “invaders  from the country. Thousands were killed or wounded
over the next few weeks, picked off by Vietnamese soldiers who had been
in combat in some cases for over twenty years. In May 1970, a joint U.S.–
South Vietnamese invasion of eastern Cambodia drove the North
Vietnamese forces farther west. The invasion protected the U.S.
withdrawal from Vietnam, but it probably spelled the end of Cambodia as
a sovereign state.12
THE KHMER REPUBLIC’S SLOW COLLAPSE
Lon Nol’s two offensives against the Vietnamese in late 1970 and 1971
were named after the pre-Angkorean kingdom of Chenla. They were
encouraged by the United States, but Lon Nol’s troops were badly trained,
poorly equipped, and often badly led. Experienced North Vietnamese
forces cut them to pieces, and after 1971 Lon Nol’s troops mounted no
major offensive actions. After becoming a republic in October 1970, the
government survived for four more years, largely because of U.S. military
and economic assistance and heavy bombing.
The last four years of the Khmer Republic were violent and
melancholy. Lon Nol suffered a stroke in early 1971. Although he
recovered rapidly, he never regained full political control. Without strong
leadership many politicians in Phnom Penh busied themselves with
forming factions and amassing wealth. A leading actor was Lon Nol’s
younger brother, Lon Non, whose efforts were concentrated on keeping
Sisowath Sirik Matak—or anyone else—from gaining power from Lon
Nol. In the countryside, republican army officers often falsified the numbers
of soldiers under their command so as to pocket the salaries provided by
the United States. Some officers also sold military equipment to the
Communists; few were prepared to take offensive action. Lon Nol was
reluctant to punish the malfeasance or corruption of officers who were
loyal to him. Instead, he spent much of his time writing long letters to his
friend, President Nixon, pleading for U.S. aid while listening to Buddhist
mystics who promised magical solutions to the war. By the end of 1972
the Khmer Republic controlled Phnom Penh, a few provincial capitals,
and much of Battambang. The rest of the country was either in
Communist hands or unsafe for anyone to administer.
In the first half of 1973 the United States brutally postponed a
Communist victory by conducting a bombing campaign on Cambodia
that, in its intensity, was as far-reaching as any during World War II. Over
a hundred thousand tons of bombs fell on the Cambodian countryside
before the U.S. Congress prohibited further bombing. No reliable estimate
of casualties has ever been made, but the campaign probably halted the
Communist forces encircling Phnom Penh, even though some have argued
that it hardened the will of the surviving Communist forces. The war
dragged on for another year and a half, but President Nixon’s reaction to
the end of the bombing was to declare to an aide that, as a result, the
United States had “lost  Southeast Asia—a section of the world it had
never owned.13
The Communists’ response to over twenty years of Vietnamese
assistance to their movement was to massacre most of the Cambodians
sent down from North Vietnam as soon as North Vietnamese troops
withdrew from Cambodia at the end of 1972, following the cease-fire
agreed upon by Vietnam and the United States. These killings occurred in
secret. The Communists also experimented with programs of
collectivization in the zones under their control, and in early 1973, during
the U.S. bombing campaign, the CPK introduced compulsory cooperatives
in some areas. By then, rumors were reaching Phnom Penh about the
uncompromising conduct of the insurgents, who took no prisoners and
who herded inhabitants into the forest whenever they captured a town or
village. Many people in Phnom Penh dismissed these rumors as
propaganda and continued to believe that the Khmer Rouge were puppets
of the Vietnamese. At the same time they were exhausted by the war and
ready for almost any alternative to the corrupt and inefficient Khmer
Republic.
Young girls in revolutionary costume, 1972. Photo by Serge Thion.
The end came in early 1975 when the Communists mined the riverine
approaches to Phnom Penh and thus prevented shipments of rice and
ammunition from reaching the capital. Airlifts arranged by the United
States were unable to bring in enough rice to feed Phnom Penh or enough
ammunition to defend it. For the next three months the Cambodian
Communists tightened their noose around the city, now swollen with
perhaps two million refugees. In early March, Lon Nol flew out of the
country taking along a million dollars awarded him by his government.
Last-minute attempts to negotiate with Sihanouk, set in motion by the
United States, came to nothing. At this point or shortly beforehand, and
without waiting for approval from his Vietnamese allies, Saloth Sar and his
colleagues decided to take Phnom Penh.
On the morning of April 17, 1975, columns of Communist troops
dressed in peasant clothes or simple khaki uniforms, ominously silent and
heavily armed, converged on Phnom Penh from three directions. Many of
them were under fifteen years of age. Walking slowly down the capital’s
broad avenues, emptied of other traffic, they responded coldly to the
people’s welcome. Their arrival coincided roughly with the Cambodian
new year and came two weeks before the Communist victory in South
Vietnam. The coincidences were deliberate, for the Communists probably
intended that the year to come, like year one of the French Revolution,
would usher in an entirely new phase of Cambodian history, without any
connections to the revolution in Vietnam.14
12
REVOLUTION IN CAMBODIA
It is uncertain whether historians of Cambodia a hundred years from now
will devote as much space to the country’s brief revolutionary period as to
the much longer, more complex, and more mysterious Angkorean era. For
nearly all mature Cambodians in the early twenty-first century, however,
the three years, eight months, and twenty days that followed the capture of
Phnom Penh in April 1975 were a traumatic and unforgettable period.
Because of the ferocity with which Cambodia’s revolution was waged,
however, and the way it contrasted with many people’s ideas about pre-
1970 Cambodia, a chapter-length discussion of the period fits well in a
narrative history of this kind.
The Communist regime that controlled Cambodia between April 17,
1975, and January 7, 1979, was known as Democratic Kampuchea (DK).
Survivors remember the time as vinh chu chot (three words for the sharp
tastes of unripe fruit). The bitter-tasting revolution that DK sponsored
swept through the country like a forest fire or a typhoon, and its
spokesmen claimed after the military victory that “over two thousand years
of Cambodia history  had ended. So had money, markets, formal
education, Buddhism, books, private property, diverse clothing styles, and
freedom of movement. No Cambodian government had ever tried to
change so many things so rapidly; none had been so relentlessly oriented
toward the future or so biased in favor of the poor.
The leaders of DK, who were members of Cambodia’s Communist
Party (CPK) were for the most part hidden from view and called
themselves the “revolutionary organization  (angkar padevat). They sought
to transform Cambodia by replacing what they saw as impediments to
national autonomy and social justice with revolutionary energy and
incentives. They believed that family life, individualism, and an ingrained
fondness for what they called feudal institutions, as well as the institutions
themselves, stood in the way of the revolution. Cambodia’s poor, they said,
had always been exploited and enslaved. Liberated by the revolution and
empowered by military victory, these men and women would now become
the masters of their lives and, collectively, the masters of their country.
The CPK monitored every step of the revolution but concealed its
existence from outsiders and did not reveal its socialist agenda or the
names of its leaders. It said nothing of its long-standing alliance with the
Communists in Vietnam and very little about the patronage of China and
North Korea that the regime enjoyed. For several months the CPK’s
leaders even allowed foreigners to think that Sihanouk, who had served as
a figurehead leader for the anti–Lon Nol resistance, was still Cambodia’s
chief of state. By concealing its alliances and agendas, the new government
gave the impression that Cambodia and its revolution were genuinely
independent. In 1978 Saloth Sar (Pol Pot) boasted to Yugoslavian visitors
that Cambodia was “building socialism without a model.  That process
began in April 1975 and continued for the lifetime of DK, but by
acknowledging that there were no precedents for what they were doing,
Pol Pot and his colleagues had embarked on a perilous course.1
To transform the country thoroughly and at once, Communist cadres
ordered everyone out of the cities and towns. In the week after April 17,
1975, over two million Cambodians were pushed into the countryside
toward an uncertain fate. Only the families of top CPK officials and a few
hundred Khmer Rouge soldiers were allowed to stay behind. This brutal
order, never thoroughly explained, added several thousand deaths to what
may have been five hundred thousand inflicted by the civil war. Reports
reaching the West spoke of hospital patients driven from their beds,
random executions, and sick and elderly people as well as small children
dead or abandoned along the roads. The evacuation shocked its victims as
well as observers in other countries, who had hoped that the new regime
would try to govern through reconciliation. But these men and women
may have forgotten the ferocity with which the civil war had been fought
by both sides. Still other observers, more sympathetic to the idea of
revolution, saw the evacuation of the cities as the only way Cambodia
could grow enough food to survive, break down entrenched and
supposedly backward-looking social hierarchies, loyalties, and
arrangements and set its Utopian strategies in motion.2
The decision to evacuate the cities was made by the CPK’s leaders
shortly before the liberation of Phnom Penh, but it was a closely kept
secret and took some Communist commanders by surprise. One reason for
the decision was that the capital was genuinely short of food. Another was
the difficulty of administering several million people who had failed to
support the revolution. A third was that the CPK’s leaders were fearful for
their own security. Perhaps the overriding reason, however, was the desire
to assert the victory of the CPK, the dominance of the countryside over
the cities and the empowerment of the poor. Saloth Sar and his colleagues
had not spent seven years in the forest and five years after that fighting a
civil war to take office as city councilors. They saw the cities as breeding
grounds for counterrevolution. Their economic priorities were based on
the transformation of Cambodian agriculture, especially on increasing the
national production of rice. By exporting the surplus, it was hoped that the
government would earn hard currency with which to pay for imports and,
eventually, to finance industrialization. To achieve such a surplus, the CPK
needed all the agricultural workers it could find.
For the next six months, the people who had been driven out of the
cities—known to the regime as “new people  or “April 17 people —busied
themselves with growing rice and other crops under the supervision of
soldiers and CPK cadres. Conditions were severe, particularly for those
unaccustomed to physical labor, but because in most districts there was
enough to eat, many survivors of DK who had been evacuated from
Phnom Penh came to look back on these months as a comparative golden
age. For the first time in many years, Cambodia was not at war, and many
so-called new people were eager to help to reconstruct their battered
country. Perhaps, after all, Cambodia’s problems were indeed so severe as
to require revolutionary solutions. A former engineer has said, “At first,
the ideas of the revolution were good.  He added, however, that “they
didn’t work in practice. 3
For many rural Cambodians, and especially those between fifteen and
twenty-five, fighting against feudalism and the Americans in the early
1970s had provided beguiling glimpses of freedom, self-respect, and power
—as well as access to weapons—that were unimaginable to their parents or
to most Cambodians. These young people, to borrow a phrase from Mao
Zedong, were “poor and blank  pages on which it was often easy to
inscribe the teachings of the revolution. Owing everything to the
revolutionary organization, which they referred to as their mother and
father, and nothing to the past, it was thought that these young people
would lead the way in transforming Cambodia into a socialist state and in
moving the people toward independence, mastery, and self-reliance. To
the alarm and confusion of many older people, these often violent young
Cambodians became the revolution’s cutting edge.
DK TAKES POWER, 1975–76
The DK period in Cambodia was characterized by regional and temporal
variations. By and large, those parts of the country that had been under
CPK control the longest tended to be the best equipped to deal with the
programs set out by the party and the most accommodating to the new
people. Cadres were better trained and more disciplined in the east,
northeast, and southwest than they were in the northwest. Unfortunately
for the new people, the northwest, centered on the provinces of
Battambang and Pursat, had been the most productive agricultural area in
prerevolutionary times. For this reason hundreds of thousands of new
people were driven into the northwest in early 1976. The regime’s
demands for crop surpluses were heavier there than in other regions, and
so were the sufferings that ensued.4
The CPK divided Cambodia into seven zones (phumipheak), which in
turn were broken down into thirty-two administrative regions (dombon). In
general, conditions were relatively tolerable through 1976 in the
northeastern and eastern zones, somewhat worse in the southwest, central,
and west, and worst of all in the northern and northwestern zones. Within
the zones there was also considerable variation, reflecting differences in
leadership, resources, and external factors such as the fighting with
Vietnam that broke out in earnest in the east and the southwest in the
middle of 1977.5
Zones and administrative divisions of Democratic Kampuchea.
Life was hard everywhere. On a national scale it is estimated that over
the lifetime of the regime nearly two million people—or one person in four
—died as a result of DK policies and actions. These included overworking
people, neglecting or mistreating the sick, and giving everyone less food
than they needed to survive. Perhaps as many as four hundred thousand
were killed outright as enemies of the revolution. Most of these people
died in provincial prison. On a per capita basis, and considering the short
life span of DK, the number of regime-related deaths in Cambodia is one
of the highest in recorded world history. Whether or not the death toll fits
the terms of the UN genocide convention has been vigorously debated.
Those who argue for the use of the term see close parallels in the
Cambodian case to what happened during the Holocaust, in Armenia, and
in Rwanda. Those arguing against the term suggest that racist motives
were much lower on DK’s agenda (except for the systematic execution of
Vietnamese residents in 1978 and, in some cases, Muslim Cham) than was
destroying the regime’s political enemies, a category of victims purposely
omitted from the UN genocide convention. For these critics the term
crimes against humanity fits what happened in DK better than the highly
charged and perhaps misleading genocide.6
The DK period can be divided into four phases. The first lasted from
the capture of Phnom Penh until the beginning of 1976 when DK
formally came into existence, a constitution was proclaimed, and a new
wave of migration was set in motion from the center and southwest, which
were heavily populated but relatively unproductive, to the rich ricegrowing
areas in the northwest. The southwest had been liberated early
and contained many revolutionary bases. It was crowded with refugees
from Phnom Penh. Most of the northwest on the other hand had
remained under republican control until April 1975. The regime counted
on this area to lead the way in expanding Cambodia’s rice production, and
the new people were the instruments chosen to achieve this goal. The fact
that they were socially unredeemable was seen as an advantage because
their deaths made no difference to the regime. In a chilling adage recalled
by many survivors, they were often told, “Keeping you is no profit; losing
you is no loss. 7
During this period, Phnom Penh radio enjoined its listeners via
anonymous speakers and revolutionary songs to “build and defend 
Cambodia against unnamed enemies (khmang) and traitors (kbot cheat)
outside and within the country in patterns reminiscent of Maoist China.
In view of the regime’s collapse in 1979, there was a poignant optimism
built into these pronouncements, but in the early stages of the revolution
many Cambodians seem to have believed that it would succeed. Moreover,
from the perspective of the party’s leaders, genuine or imagined enemies
had not yet surfaced.
DK’s second phase lasted until the end of September 1976 and marked
the apogee of the regime, although conditions in most of the countryside
deteriorated as the year progressed. It is uncertain why the leaders of the
CPK waited so long to come into the open. They had managed to control
the population without identifying themselves for nearly a year and a half.
Perhaps this anonymity made them feel secure. China’s continuing
patronage of Sihanouk might also have been a factor in the CPK’s
postponing of its outright assumption of power. When the Chinese prime
minister, Zhou Enlai, who was Prince Sihanouk’s most important patron,
died in January 1976, the leaders of the CPK were ready to brush the
prince aside and to force him to retire as chief of state. A confidential party
document of March 1976 stated that “Sihanouk has run out of breath. He
cannot go forward. Therefore we have decided to retire him. 8 Sihanouk
resigned three days later. In reports broadcast over Phnom Penh radio
probably for foreign consumption, he was offered a pension that was never
paid and a monument in his honor that was never erected. By April 1976
he was living under guard in a villa on the grounds of the royal palace with
his wife and their son, Sihamoni, who became king of Cambodia when
Sihanouk retired in 2004. The prince stayed there, in relative comfort but
in fear of his life, until he was sent by DK on a diplomatic mission to the
UN in January 1979. The March 1976 DK document also noted that the
new government “must be purely a party organization  and stated that
“Comrade Pol,  a pseudonym for Saloth Sar who was not otherwise
identified, would be prime minister.
The constitution of Democratic Kampuchea, promulgated in January
1976, guaranteed no human rights, defined few organs of government and,
in effect, abolished private property, organized religion, and familyoriented
agricultural production. The document acknowledged no foreign
models, denied any foreign alliances or assistance, and said nothing about
the CPK or Marxist-Leninist ideas. Instead, it made the revolution sound
like a uniquely Cambodian affair with no connection to the outside world.9
When National Assembly elections were held in March, the CPK’s
candidates were voted in unopposed. They included members of the CPK
Central Committee, elected as peasants, rubber workers, and so on, as well
as others harder to identify. Pol Pot, not otherwise identified, represented
“rubber workers in the eastern zone.  The candidates had no territorial
constituencies, being seen instead as representatives of certain classes of
Khmer. New people were not nominated or eligible to vote, and it seems
that in much of the country no elections ever took place. The assembly
met only once, to approve the constitution, and never played a significant
role in DK. Like the elections themselves, the assembly seems to have been
formed to placate foreign opinion.
The people who achieved a prominent place in the new government
were a mixture of intellectuals who had studied in France, including Pol
Pot, Ieng Sary, Sary’s wife, Ieng Thirith, Hu Nim, Khieu Samphan,
Thiounn Thioenn and Son Sen; older members of the Indochinese
Communist Party like Nuon Chea, Nhek Ros, Chou Chet, Non Suon, Ta
Mok, and Sao Phim; and younger militants who had never left Cambodia,
such as Von Vet, Khek Pen, and Chhim Samauk. Those in charge of the
zones did not include any ex-students from France; they were concentrated
in the newly established ministries of Phnom Penh.
THE FOUR-YEAR PLAN
Over the next few months, Pol Pot and his colleagues drafted a four-year
economic plan “to build socialism in all fields.  The plan was to go into
effect in September 1976, but it was never formally launched. It called for
the collectivization of all Cambodian property and proposed everincreasing
levels of rice production throughout the country, with the aim
of achieving an average national yield of three metric tons per hectare (1.4
tons per acre). The prerevolutionary national average, harvested under less
stringent conditions and with monetary incentives, had been less than a
ton per hectare, one of the lowest yields in Southeast Asia. The goal of
tripling the average was to be achieved by extensive irrigation, double and
triple cropping, longer working hours, and the release of revolutionary
fervor supposedly derived from the people’s liberation from exploitation
and individual concerns. The plan was hastily written. No effort was made
to see if its proposals were appropriate to soil and water conditions in
particular areas or if the infrastructure with which to achieve its goals was
in place. Instead, the plan called for an “all out, storming offensive  by
everyone throughout the country. Some writers have drawn parallels
between the CPK’s program and the so-called war communism of the
Soviet Union in the early 1920s; others compare DK’s policies to those
known as the Great Leap Forward in China in the 1950s. No material
incentives were offered the Cambodian people in the plan except the
bizarre promise that everyone would enjoy dessert on a daily basis—by
1980! Cambodia’s newfound independence, the empowerment of the poor,
and the end of exploitation were thought to be sufficient incentives and
rewards.10
Under the plan, crops such as cotton, jute, rubber, coconuts, sugar, and
kapok were also to be cultivated for export. With the money earned from
exports, light industry was to be established and, eventually, heavy industry
as well. Plans for the latter were particularly Utopian, for they were
dependent on raw materials like iron, steel, and petroleum, which did not
exist in DK. Cambodia’s extensive offshore petroleum deposits were not
discovered until the 1990s.
In explaining the plan to high-ranking members of the party, an
unnamed spokesman, presumably Pol Pot, stated that it could be
accomplished swiftly. The DK revolution, after all, was “a new experience,
and an important one for the whole world, because we don’t perform like
others. We leap [directly to] a socialist revolution, and swiftly build
socialism. We don’t need a long period of time for transformation. 11
The plan said nothing about leisure, religion, formal education, or
family life. Although it was deemed crucial to “abolish illiteracy among the
population,  nothing was said about what people would be given or
allowed to read. Some primary schools existed in base areas by 1976, but
education was not extended to new people or their children until 1977 or
1978. Education above the primary level did not exist before 1978, when a
belated attempt was made to establish a technical high school in Phnom
Penh. In part, DK officials were making a virtue of necessity, since most
men and women known to be experienced schoolteachers and hostile to
the CPK were suspected of treasonous intentions and were often killed as
class enemies. Former teachers who were members of the party, like Pol
Pot and Ieng Sary, now had more rewarding tasks to perform.
Most Cambodians under DK had to work ten to twelve hours a day,
twelve months a year to accomplish the objectives of the plan. Many of
those who were unaccustomed to physical labor soon died of malnutrition
and overwork, but even those who had been farmers in prerevolutionary
times found themselves working longer and harder than they had before
1975, with no material rewards, limited access to their spouses and
children, and very little free time. By early 1976, food was already scarce,
since the surpluses from the first harvests had been gathered up to feed the
army, to be stored, or to be exported. The situation deteriorated in 1977
and 1978 when much of the country was stricken with famine. Many
survivors recall months of eating rice gruel without much else. One of
them, now living in Australia, has said, “We looked like the Africans you
see on television. Our legs were like sticks; we could barely walk. 12
A similar famine had swept through China in the early 1960s in the
wake of the Great Leap Forward. In Cambodia, news of the famine was
slow to reach the leaders in Phnom Penh; when it did, starvation was seen
as evidence of mismanagement and treachery by those cadres charged with
distribution of food. These people, many of them loyal members of the
CPK, were soon arrested, interrogated, and put to death. The DK’s leaders
seem to have believed that the forces they had mobilized to defeat the
Americans—two weeks earlier than a similar victory had taken place in
Vietnam—were sufficient for any task set by the “clear-sighted  CPK.13
During this second stage of the DK era, inexperienced cadres, in order
to meet the targets imposed from the center, placed what were often
unbearable pressures on the April 17 people and everyone else under their
command. One way of achieving surpluses was to reduce the amount of
rice used for seed and what had been set aside to feed the people. Rations
were sufficient for survival, and in several parts of the country, people had
enough to eat for most of 1976. In much of the northwest, however,
rations diminished as the center’s Utopian priorities came into force.
Several hundred thousand more “new people  had been brought into the
area in early 1976, and many of them were set to work hacking clearings
out of the jungle. No Western-style medicines were available, and
thousands soon died from malaria, overwork, and malnutrition.
A CRISIS IN THE PARTY
In early September 1976, Mao Zedong died shortly before the CPK was to
celebrate its twenty-fifth anniversary. Pol Pot used his comments on Mao’s
death to state publicly for the first time that Cambodia was being governed
in accordance with Marxist-Leninist ideas. He stopped short of identifying
angkar padevat as the CPK. It seems likely that the CPK had hoped to use
its anniversary on September 30 to announce its existence to the world and
to launch its Four-Year Plan. As the month wore on, however, a split
developed inside the CPK between those who favored the 1951 date for
the foundation of the party and those who preferred 1960, when a special
congress had convened in Phnom Penh and had named Pol Pot and Ieng
Sary, among others, to the party’s Central Committee. To those who
preferred the 1960 date, the earlier one was suggestive of Vietnamese
domination of the party. They viewed those who favored 1951 as people
whose primary loyalties were to Vietnam. What Pol Pot later described as
the putting down of a potential coup d’état against his rule was more likely
a preemptive purge of several party members whose loyalties to the party
(or to Vietnam) seemed to be greater than their loyalties to Pol Pot.14
Two prominent members of the CPK, Keo Meas and Non Suon, who
both had ties to the Vietnamese-dominated phase of the party’s history
were arrested and accused of treason. Their confessions assert that they
supported a 1951 founding date for the CPK.15
Overall, several thousand typed and handwritten confessions have
survived from the DK interrogation center in the Phnom Penh suburb of
Tuol Sleng, known in the DK period by its code name S-21. At least
fourteen thousand men and women were questioned, tortured, and
executed at the facility between the end of 1975 and the first few days of
1979, and over four thousand of their dossiers survive. Some of these run
to hundreds of pages. The confessions are invaluable for historians, but it
is impossible to tell from these documents alone whether or not a genuine
conspiracy to dethrone Pol Pot and his associates had gathered momentum
by September 1976. Like Sihanouk and Lon Nol, Pol Pot considered
disagreements over policy to be tantamount to treason, and arguments over
the party’s founding date suggested to him that certain people wanted him
removed from power.16
At the end of the month, barely four days before the anniversary of the
party was to be celebrated, Pol Pot resigned as prime minister “for reasons
of health  and was replaced by the second-ranking man in the CPK, Nuon
Chea. Pol Pot’s health had often broken down in the preceding year and a
half, but he probably announced his resignation at this point to throw his
enemies off balance and to draw others into the open. The resignation, in
fact, may never have actually taken place. By mid-October, in any case, he
was back in office. In November, after the arrest of the Gang of Four, Pol
Pot and five of his colleagues traveled secretly to China to reassure
themselves of continuing Chinese support. By 1978 this included two
Chinese engineering regiments engaged in building a military airfield near
Kompong Chhnang. It is likely that this ongoing military help was agreed
upon at this time.17
There was still no announcement of the party’s existence, however, as
its leaders had decided to keep the matter secret for the time being, to
postpone a formal announcement of the Four-Year Plan and to intensify
the search for enemies inside the party. In the meantime, S-21 expanded
its operations. Only two hundred prisoners entered the facility in 1975, but
more than ten times that many (2,250) were brought there in 1976, and
more than two-thirds of them were imprisoned between September and
November, covering the period of unease in the CPK discussed above.
Another five thousand prisoners were taken there in 1977, and
approximately the same number were imprisoned in 1978. Factory workers
in Phnom Penh, who knew about the center’s existence but not about what
went on inside its barbed-wire walls, called it a“place of entering, no
leaving  (konlanh choul ot cenh). Only a dozen of the prisoners taken there
for interrogation avoided being put to death.18
In December 1976, as the purges intensified, Pol Pot presided over a
“study session  restricted to high-ranking members of the party that was
called to examine the progress of the Cambodian revolution. The
document that has survived from this meeting, a speech by Pol Pot, is
darker and more pessimistic than those produced earlier in the year. In a
vivid passage, Pol Pot spoke of a “sickness in the party  that had developed
during 1976:
Democratic Kampuchean cadre, Thai-Cambodian border, 1979.
Photo by Brian L. Stevens.
We cannot locate it precisely. The illness must
emerge to be examined. Because the heat of
[previous stages of the revolution] was
insufficient at the level of people’s struggle and
class struggle . . . we searched for the microbes
within the party without success. They are
buried. As our socialist revolution advances,
however, seeping more strongly into every
corner of the party, the army and among the
people, we can locate the evil microbes. . . .
Those who defend us must be truly adept. They
should have practice in observing. They must
observe everything, but not so that those being
observed are aware of it.19
Who were the observers and who were the observed? People opposed
to the revolution were moving targets depending on the evolving policies
and priorities of the party’s leadership. At different stages of DK’s short
history, the “evil microbes  were those with middle-class backgrounds or
soldiers who had fought for Lon Nol, those who had joined the
Communist movement when it was guided by Vietnam, or those who had
been exposed to foreign countries. In 1977, attention shifted to the
northern and northwestern zones where famines had occurred, and by
1978 victims included high-ranking members of the party, military
commanders, and officials associated with the eastern zone. To be
suspected, a person had only to be mentioned in the confessions of three
other people. Those accused would name the people they knew, and so on.
Hundreds, probably thousands of those who were taken to S-21 were
completely innocent of the charges brought against them, but everyone
who was interrogated was considered guilty, and nearly all those who were
interrogated were killed. News of people’s disappearances was used to keep
their colleagues in the party in line, but the deaths themselves and the
existence of the prison were not made public. The regime never expressed
regret for anyone it had executed by mistake. For Pol Pot and his
colleagues, too much hung in the balance for them to hesitate in attacking
enemies of the party: the success of the revolution, the execution of policy,
and the survival of the leaders themselves. At the end of his December
1976 speech, Pol Pot remarked that such enemies “have been entering the
party continuously. . . . They remain—perhaps only one person, or two
people. They remain. 20
The effect of brutal, ambiguous threats like these on the people
listening to them is impossible to gauge. Within a year many of these men
and women had been arrested, interrogated, tortured, and put to death at
S-21. In most cases, they were forced to admit that they had joined the
“CIA  (a blanket term for counterrevolutionary activity) early in their
careers. Others claimed to have worked for Soviet or Vietnamese
intelligence agencies. It is unclear whether Pol Pot and the cadres at S-21
who forced people to make these confessions believed in these conspiracies
or merely in the efficacy of executing anyone who was suspected by those
in power.21
CONFLICT WITH VIETNAM
The third phase of the DK era, between the political crisis of September
1976 and a speech by Pol Pot twelve months later in which he announced
the existence of the CPK, was marked by waves of purges and by a shift
toward blaming Cambodia’s difficulties and counterrevolutionary activity
to an increasing extent on Vietnam. Open conflict with Vietnam had been
a possibility ever since April 1975, when Cambodian forces had attacked
several Vietnamese-held islands in the Gulf of Thailand with the hope of
making territorial gains in the final stages of the Vietnam War. The
Cambodian forces had been driven back and differences between the two
Communist regimes had more or less been papered over, but DK’s distrust
of Vietnamese territorial intentions was very deep. So were Pol Pot’s
suspicions of the Vietnamese Communist Party, whose leaders had been
patronizing toward their Cambodian counterparts for many years and had
allowed Cambodia’s armed struggle to flourish only in the shadow of
Vietnam’s. Pol Pot’s suspicions deepened in July 1977 when Vietnam
signed a treaty of cooperation with Laos, a move that he interpreted as part
of Vietnam’s plan to encircle Cambodia and to reconstitute and control
what had once been French Indochina.22
Realizing the relative strengths of the two countries, however, Pol Pot
tried at first to maintain correct relations and was unwilling to expand
DK’s armed forces to defend eastern Cambodia against possible
Vietnamese incursions. The Vietnamese, recovering from almost thirty
years of fighting, were also cautious. In 1975–76, however, their attempts
to open negotiations about the frontier were rebuffed by the Cambodians,
who demanded that the Vietnamese honor the verbal agreements they had
reached with Sihanouk in the 1960s. Cambodians claimed parts of the
Gulf of Thailand, where they hoped to profit from partially explored but
unexploited offshore oil deposits, but these claims were rejected by the
Vietnamese, who had similar hopes. Skirmishes along the border between
heavily armed, poorly disciplined troops in 1976 led Vietnamese and
Cambodian leaders to doubt each other’s sincerity. The Cambodian raids
were much more brutal, but the evidence for centralized control or
approval for attacks on either side before the middle of 1977 is
contradictory.23
The situation was complicated further by the fact that Pol Pot and his
colleagues believed the Cambodian minorities in southern Vietnam were
ready to overthrow Vietnamese rule; they wanted to attach these minorities
to DK. Sihanouk and Lon Nol had also dreamt of a greater Cambodia. In
fact, whatever the views of the Khmer in Vietnam might have been, they
were insufficiently armed, motivated, and organized to revolt. When no
uprising occurred, Pol Pot suspected treachery on the part of the agents he
had dispatched to foment it. His troops were also merciless; on their crossborder
raids that began in April 1977, they encountered and massacred
hapless Khmer who had unwittingly failed to follow his scenario.
As so often in modern Cambodian history, what Cambodians
interpreted as an internal affair or a quarrel between neighbors had
unforeseen international repercussions. For several months after the death
of Mao Zedong and the arrest of his radical subordinates known as the
Gang of Four, the Chinese regime was in disarray. Although the four
radicals were soon arrested, the new ruler, Hua Guofeng, tried to maintain
Mao’s momentum by opposing the Soviet Union, praising Mao’s ideas and
supporting third world revolutions like DK’s. Many Chinese officials,
including Hua’s successor, Deng Xiaoping, perceived Vietnam as a pro-
Soviet threat along their southern border—much as the United States at
the time saw Cuba. For the Chinese, Cambodia was a convenient and
conveniently radical ally. By early 1977, large quantities of arms,
ammunition, and military equipment were coming into DK from China.
Ironically, the Chinese were asking DK to play a role that mirrored the
one played by the regime DK had overthrown, when the Khmer Republic
had been “groomed  to serve the interests of the United States.24
This phase of the DK era ended in late September 1977 when Pol Pot,
in a five-hour speech recorded for Phnom Penh radio, announced the
existence of the CPK on the occasion of the seventeenth anniversary of its
foundation.25 The speech failed to explain why the party’s existence had
been kept a secret for so long, and the announcement may have responded
to pressure from China in exchange for that country’s continuing military
assistance. In any case, the day after the speech was broadcast Pol Pot flew
to Beijing where he was feted publicly by Hua Guofeng, whom he had met
in secret a year before. The Chinese offered extensive help to DK in its
confrontation with Vietnam. More realistic than DK’s leaders, they did
not support a full-scale war, knowing that Cambodia would lose, until they
were pushed by Pol Pot and Vietnamese intransigence toward that
position in 1978.26
Pol Pot’s long speech contained some veiled warnings to Vietnam, but
its main intention was to review the long trajectory of Cambodian history,
culminating in the triumph of the CPK. The format was chronological,
divided into a discussion of events before 1960, between 1960 and 1975,
and developments in DK itself. The 1960 congress, he asserted, marked
the establishment of a “correct line  for the CPK, but since armed struggle
was postponed for eight more years and the party’s leaders had to flee
Phnom Penh in 1963, he found few benefits to mention that flowed from
the party’s line in terms of revolutionary practice. Benefits flowed after the
anti-Sihanouk coup, to be sure, but Pol Pot failed to mention the most
significant of them, Vietnamese military assistance to the Khmer Rouge.
Similarly, Sihanouk himself was never mentioned.
In closing, Pol Pot noted that “with complete confidence, we rely on
the powerful revolutionary spirit, experience, and creative ingenuity of our
people,  failing also to mention Chinese military aid. Optimistically, he
predicted that Cambodia would soon have twenty million people (“Our
aim is to increase the population as quickly as possible ) and claimed that
the average food intake had reached over three hundred kilograms (660
pounds) of rice per person per year. Many refugees later took issue with
the latter statement, pointing out that by the middle of 1977 in much of
the country and for the first time in Cambodian history, rice had virtually
disappeared from the diet.
It is likely that Pol Pot had been encouraged to make the speech and to
bring the CPK into the open by his Chinese allies and that, because of the
importance of that alliance, he was happy to oblige.
In late September 1977 Pol Pot embarked on a state visit to China. At
the Beijing airport, the DK delegation was met by China’s premier, Hua
Guofeng, and Deng Xiaoping, who was to replace Hua in 1978. The visit
probably marked the high point (for Pol Pot at least) of the DK regime.
The warmth of the welcome that the Cambodians received probably
convinced him that the Chinese would support DK if and when hostilities
broke out between Cambodia and Vietnam. In fact, while the Chinese
encouraged DK’s hostility toward Vietnam, they also hoped for a peaceful
solution.27
DK CLOSES DOWN
Vietnam saw the DK-Beijing alliance that was strengthened during Pol
Pot’s visit to China as a provocation, and in mid-December 1977 Vietnam
mounted a military offensive against Cambodia. Fourteen divisions were
involved, and Vietnamese troops penetrated up to thirty-two kilometers
(twenty miles) into Cambodia in some areas. In the first week of 1978,
after DK had broken off diplomatic relations with Vietnam, most of the
Vietnamese troops went home, taking along thousands of Cambodian
villagers as hostages. The Vietnamese soon began grooming some of these
hostages as a government in exile; others were given military training. One
of the exiles, a DK regimental commander named Hun Sen, who had fled
Cambodia in 1977, emerged as the premier of the People’s Republic of
Kampuchea (PRK) in 1985. Aside from the UN interregnum in 1992–93,
he has remained in command of Cambodian politics ever since.
Pol Pot’s response to the Vietnamese withdrawal was to claim a “total
victory,  while secretly purging military officers and CPK cadres in the
eastern zone where the Vietnamese penetration had been the deepest.
These men and women were said to have Cambodian bodies and
Vietnamese minds. Several hundred of them were executed at Tuol Sleng;
hundreds of others, on the spot.28 In the confusion many DK soldiers
from the eastern zone sought refuge in Vietnam. One of them, Heng
Samrin, later became the chief of state of the PRK and a revered,
inconsequential figure in subsequent regimes. In addition, thousands of
people in the east were forcibly transferred toward the west in early 1978.
Local troops in the east were massacred and replaced by troops from the
southwest. The man in charge of the eastern zone, an ICP veteran named
Sao Phim, committed suicide in June 1978 when summoned to Phnom
Penh for consultation. The massacres in the east continued for several
months.29
In 1978 the DK regime tried to open itself to the outside world and to
improve its image with the Cambodian people. Gestures included a
general amnesty offered to the population and the establishment of a
technical high school in Phnom Penh. The regime welcomed visits from
sympathetic journalists and foreign radicals and inaugurated diplomatic
relations with non-Communist countries such as Burma and Malaysia
These actions had mixed results. For example, a Yugoslavian television
crew visited DK in 1978, and the footage broadcast later in the year gave
the outside world its first glimpse of life there and of Pol Pot. One of the
cameramen later remarked that the only person the crew had seen smiling
in Cambodia was Pol Pot. Other visitors who sympathized with DK
praised everything they saw. They were taken to see places the regime was
proud of, and what they saw fit their preconceptions.
Most survivors of the regime, however, remember 1978 as the harshest
year of DK, when communal dining halls were introduced in many areas
and rations fell below the starvation levels of 1977.
By this time also, Vietnamese attempts to reopen negotiations with
DK had failed. Nearly a hundred thousand Vietnamese troops were
massed along the Cambodian border by April 1978, just before Pol Pot’s
suppression of enemies in the eastern zone. Vietnam also signed a twentyfive-
year treaty of friendship with the Soviet Union to balance the threat
from China and in early December announced that a Kampuchean Front
for National Salvation had been set up in “liberated Cambodian territory 
to overthrow DK. The front included several leaders of later Khmer
politics, such as Heng Samrin, Chea Sim, and Hun Sen.30
Vietnam and DK now embarked on a long and costly struggle that
played into the hands of larger powers. These powers, in turn, were not
prepared to take risks. There is evidence, for example, that Pol Pot
requested that the Chinese provide volunteers but that the request was
turned down. DK would have to face the Vietnamese (and serve Chinese
interests) on its own. The parallels between the last days of DK and the
last days of Lon Nol’s regime in 1975 are striking, and ironic.
In December 1978 two American journalists and a Scottish Marxist
academic, Malcolm Caldwell, visited Cambodia. The journalists, Elizabeth
Becker and Richard Dudman, had worked in Cambodia in the early 1970s,
and they were the first nonsocialist writers to visit DK.
Recalling her visit several years later, Becker wrote:
The Phnom Penh I first glimpsed had the
precise beauty of a mausoleum. . . . There was
no litter on the streets, no trash, no dirt. But
then there were no people either, no bicycles or
buses and very few automobiles.31
Caldwell, who had written sympathetically about the regime, was
invited to Cambodia as a friend, but Becker and Dudman were thought by
DK officials to be working for the CIA, and the movements of all three
were closely monitored. On their last night in the country, December 22,
Caldwell was killed in his hotel room by unknown assailants perhaps
connected with an anti–Pol Pot faction eager to destabilize the regime.
On Christmas Day 1978, Vietnamese forces numbering over one
hundred thousand attacked DK on several fronts. Because DK forces were
crowded into the eastern and southwestern zones, Vietnamese attacks in
the northeast encountered little resistance, and by the end of the year
several major roads to Phnom Penh were in Vietnamese hands. At this
point the Vietnamese altered their strategy, which had been to occupy the
eastern half of the country, and decided to capture the capital itself.
The city, by then containing perhaps fifty thousand bureaucrats,
soldiers, and factory workers, was abandoned on January 7, 1979. Up to
the last, DK officials had confidently claimed victory. Pol Pot, like the
U.S. ambassador in 1975, escaped at the last moment in a jeep; other high
officials and foreign diplomats left by train. They were followed later, on
foot, by the half-starved, poorly equipped remnants of their armed
forces.32
It was a humiliating end for the DK leaders and for their Utopian
vision of Cambodia. The revolutionary organization never expressed regret
for the appalling loss of life that had occurred since “liberation  in 1975.
Even after DK’s demise, well into the 1990s, tens of thousands of Khmer,
particularly young people, were still prepared to give their lives to the first
organization that had given them power and self-respect. Some of these
people formed the backbone of the Khmer Rouge guerrilla army in the
1980s. Moreover, once the purges had burnt themselves out, the leaders of
the CPK (despite or perhaps because of the party’s official dissolution in
1981) remained in place and in command of the resistance throughout the
1980s and 1990s.33
Democratic Kampuchean killing ground near Phnom Penh, exhumed
in 1979. Photo by Kelvin Rowley.
Nearly everyone else welcomed the Vietnamese invasion and accepted
the government that was swiftly put in place by the invaders as preferable
to what had gone before. The new government called itself the People’s
Republic of Kampuchea (PRK) and was staffed at its upper levels by
former CPK members who had defected to Vietnam in 1977–78, as well as
by some Khmer who had lived in Vietnam throughout the DK period.
Most Cambodians rejoiced at the disappearance of a-Pot (“the
contemptible Pot ), as they now called the deposed prime minister. For
nearly everyone the DK era had been one of unmitigated suffering,
violence, and confusion. With luck, in exile, or in the PRK, most
Cambodians now thought they could resume their prerevolutionary lives,
which DK had held in such contempt.34
13
CAMBODIA SINCE 1979
THE PRK: EARLY PHASES
In early 1979 and for the first time since the 1950s, Cambodia was
controlled by a foreign power. The situation was also reminiscent of the
1830s in that the power was Vietnam, but closer parallels existed with the
final years of the French protectorate when the French took responsibility
for Cambodia’s defense, internal security, and foreign affairs, leaving less
crucial areas (from their point of view) in Cambodian hands.
Almost immediately after capturing Phnom Penh, the Vietnamese
helped their Cambodian protégés establish the People’s Republic of
Kampuchea (PRK). Its leading officials were DK military officers who had
defected to Vietnam in 1978, Cambodians who had lived in Vietnam since
the 1950s, and members of ethnic minorities untainted by service to DK.
Several figures in this original group—Heng Samrin, Chea Sim, and Hun
Sen—remained powerful through the 1980s. Hun Sen, who became prime
minister in 1985 (while retaining his foreign affairs portfolio), gradually
assumed more and more power on his own.
The new government promised to respect human rights, including
freedom of opinion and association, but it was severe with its political
opponents, as all earlier regimes had been. No elections were held until
1981, and those were not contested by opposing parties. Barely a month
after declaring its existence, the PRK signed a treaty of friendship and
cooperation with Vietnam. This gesture, combined with the hardships
affecting all Cambodians, convinced many men and women that they
might be better off outside the country.
Vietnam’s occupation of Cambodia and its alliance with the Soviet
Union angered the Chinese, who launched an attack on northern Vietnam
in February 1979 with the tacit support of the United States. The
campaign involved three hundred thousand Chinese troops and lasted for
two weeks. Thousands of people were killed on both sides, and several
Vietnamese cities along the border were laid waste. When the Chinese
withdrew, supposedly Vietnamese policies toward Cambodia (and Chinese
policies, for that matter) remained unchanged. The main effects of the
attack were to encourage tens of thousands of Sino-Vietnamese to flee
Vietnam and to strengthen the burgeoning U.S.-Chinese alliance.
Thailand’s similar alliance with China, encouraged by the United States,
was beneficial to the DK military remnants filtering into Thailand and
made the Vietnamese even more reluctant to withdraw from Cambodia.
Like those of DK in 1978, Vietnam’s leaders believed themselves
surrounded by enemies.1
At first nearly all Cambodians welcomed the Vietnamese, not because
they preferred being invaded to being autonomous but because the
invasion signaled the end of DK. Almost at once, nearly everyone began
moving. Throughout 1979 and for most of 1980, hundreds of thousands of
Cambodians crisscrossed the country looking for relatives, returning to
their homes, trading, or seeking refuge overseas. Although Vietnamese
forces pursued DK armed remnants into the northwest, civil authorities
did nothing to prevent this less-organized movement of people or the
informal revival of trade. As the PRK struggled to its feet, many
prerevolutionary institutions, including markets, Buddhism, and family
farming, came back to life. Buddhist wats and schools reopened soon
afterward. The PRK’s laissez-faire policy, however, did not extend to
political activity, which was monopolized by the government and the
People’s Revolutionary Party of Kampuchea (PRPK), a Communist
grouping that shared its pre-1975 history with the discredited CPK.2
Amid so much disorder, most of the 1979 rice crop went untended. By
the middle of the year a famine had broken out. Very few Cambodians
stayed put long enough to plant the 1979–80 rice crop, and when grain
stored before 1979 had been consumed or appropriated by Vietnamese
forces, hundreds of thousands of Khmer had little to eat. Famine
conditions were exacerbated by a drought, and it was at this point that
Cambodia gained attention in the West where television audiences,
already vaguely aware of the horrors perpetrated in DK, were shocked to
see skeletal Khmers stumbling into Thailand or dying of starvation beside
Cambodia’s roads. The sufferings provoked a massive charitable response,
but the delivery of food and medicine from abroad was often delayed by
bureaucratic rivalries, by constraints imposed by Thailand and its allies,
and to an extent by the Vietnamese themselves, who were understandably
suspicious of Western motives and used some of the food and medicine to
support their hard-pressed military and administrative personnel.3
Conditions stabilized in 1980 when the rice harvest doubled in size. In
rural areas Vietnamese forces withdrew into garrisons, and local people
were once again put in control of their own affairs. Rural society was a
shambles. Villages had been abandoned or torn down; tools, seed, and
fertilizer were nonexistent; hundreds of thousands of people had emigrated
or been killed; and in most areas the survivors suffered from malaria,
shock, or malnutrition. So many men had died or disappeared in DK that
in some districts more than 60 percent of the families were headed by
widows. Thousands of widows raised their families alone and with
difficulty. In response to these conditions, as well as to collectivist ideas,
the PRK instituted “solidarity groups  (krom sammaki) composed of several
families as collective units to cultivate the land. Private ownership was not
recognized, but collectives and communes, despised in DK, were not
reintroduced. At the district and provincial levels, PRK officials
endeavored to exert centralized control but made no effort to collect taxes
or to conscript young men for military service. Schools reopened
throughout Cambodia in 1979, and currency was reintroduced in 1980.4
For most Cambodians the reappearance of a certain amount of
personal freedom, and the PRK’s unrevolutionary caution, contrasted
sharply with their experiences under DK. At the same time they knew that
the PRK owed its existence to a foreign invasion and to Vietnamese and
Soviet-bloc support. Many high-ranking officials and regional cadres had
served happily enough in DK, and some educated Cambodians sensed an
unwholesome continuity between the successive socialist regimes. PRK
officials, moreover, refused to distance themselves from Marxism-
Leninism or one-party rule. Instead, they preferred to demonize the
“genocidal Pol Pot–Ieng Sary clique,  blaming the 1975–79 catastrophes
on these two individuals rather than on the extreme but recognizably
socialist policies of the CPK. The two villains were tried in absentia in
Phnom Penh in August 1979. Valuable evidence about the DK period
emerged at the trial, but in many respects it was a farce. No evidence was
offered in Pol Pot’s or Ieng Sary’s defense, and the two men were
condemned to death. Soon afterward, the DK interrogation center at Tuol
Sleng was inaugurated by the Vietnamese as a genocidal museum. The use
of the word genocide and comparisons of Pol Pot to Hitler suggested that
as far as the PRK was concerned, DK had had a fascist rather than a
Communist government.5
Cambodian woman and Vietnamese soldier, 1980. Photo by Grant
Evans.
OPPOSITION TO THE PRK
The PRK was unable to engender widespread trust among what remained
of Cambodia’s educated elite. Most of these men and women were not
prepared to entrust Cambodia to foreigners or to endure more socialism.
In 1979–80 tens of thousands of them walked into exile in Thailand,
eventually finding residence abroad or in the refugee camps that sprang up
along the border. The loss of so many educated people, on top of the tens
of thousands who had perished in DK, was a serious blow to the country,
By the end of 1979 the refugee camps sheltered several anti-
Vietnamese resistance factions. One of the largest of these, led by former
Prime Minister Son Sann, sought foreign support to remove the
Vietnamese occupation forces and to reimpose prerevolutionary
institutions, except Sihanouk, whom Son Sann had come to distrust. This
faction drew many supporters from Cambodians who had been living
overseas and were nostalgic, and from recent arrivals at the border who
were enraged by the destruction of the 1970s and by what they saw as
open-ended Vietnamese control. Son Sann was unable to establish an
effective military force, however, and obtained very little material support
from Vietnam’s principal antagonists—China, Thailand, and the United
States. In military terms these powers preferred DK.
In the meantime, DK’s leadership in exile remained unchanged. The
CPK continued its shadowy existence, and a DK delegation held onto
Cambodia’s seat at the United Nations. China and the United States
supported this state of affairs so as to punish Vietnam for invading
Cambodia, standing up to China, and defeating the United States. They
were joined by Singapore and Thailand, both of which pursued anti-
Communist, pro-Chinese policies. Supporting DK was a small price for all
of these powers to pay to keep their more important alliances intact. In
1979 and 1980 the Thai military government fed, clothed, and restored to
health several thousand DK soldiers who had straggled across the border,
and these soldiers also received arms, ammunition, and military supplies
from China, ferried through Thai ports. By 1982 the DK remnants had
become a relatively effective military force. Their dependents, who were
treated as political refugees, were fed and housed by agencies of the United
Nations. Because of the PRK’s pariah status, however, UN development
agencies were prohibited from operating in Cambodia itself.6
In 1980 and 1981 more and more information emerged from
Cambodia about the horrors of DK. Evidence from the Pol Pot–Ieng Sary
trial was confirmed and amplified by refugee testimony, written memoirs,
and confessions found in the archives at Tuol Sleng. The PRK inaugurated
“days of hate  in 1982 that provided occasions for survivors of the DK era
to tell their stories. DK spokesmen, for their part, admitted only a few
mistakes and blamed the Vietnamese for executing over two million
Khmer. Although PRK propaganda was often heavy-handed and
inaccurate, even cautious estimates of DK-related deaths caused by
overwork, starvation, mistreated diseases, and executions came close to two
million Cambodians, or close to one in four then living.7
China and other powers, faced with the task of improving DK’s image
while continuing to punish Vietnam, began pressuring Prince Sihanouk,
who was living in exile in Beijing, to return to political life. The prince was
willing to do so only on his own terms. He did not want to renew his
alliance with DK, he feared the Vietnamese, and he knew that Son Sann’s
faction opposed his coming back into power. At the same time, it was
difficult for him to resist Chinese pressure and to remain inactive, for he
still identified himself with the destiny of his country.
Maneuvers to form a coalition involving Sihanouk, Son Sann, and the
DK occupied much of 1981 and 1982, while the PRK and its Vietnamese
advisers worked hard to improve their image overseas. In June 1981 a
constitution modeled to a large extent on Vietnam’s was introduced in the
PRK. The document granted a range of human rights to Cambodia’s
people but enjoined them to carry out the “state’s political line.  This
document was followed by the establishment of several new ministries, the
emergence from concealment of the PRPK, and elections for a National
Assembly, which approved the constitution. The policies of the PRK fitted
closely with Vietnamese priorities, although positions of responsibility, as
the government expanded, increasingly fell to men and women without
socialist credentials. Little by little the PRK became a responsive,
functional government whose military, police, and foreign affairs were still
subject to Vietnamese control. In this respect it resembled Cambodia in
the closing years of the French protectorate. Over one hundred thousand
Vietnamese troops remained on Cambodian soil.
THE CGDK
Developments in the PRK combined with DK’s squalid reputation added
urgency to foreign efforts to form a coalition government consistent with
the Cold War policies of outside powers. In early 1981 Sihanouk met with
Khieu Samphan, representing DK, to discuss how such a coalition might
be formed. Son Sann was reluctant to join the talks, but in September
1981 the three factions announced that they were prepared to act together.
Soon afterward, the CPK’s Central Committee announced the dissolution
of the party and that faction’s conversion to capitalist ideas. Ieng Thirith
remarked that DK had changed completely and had, among other things,
restored religious beliefs. Her husband, Ieng Sary, added that Cambodia
would not be subjected to socialism for “many generations.  The alleged
dissolution of the CPK convinced no one, but enabled the Coalition
Government of Democratic Kampuchea (CGDK) to claim it was a
capitalist formation. All the CPK’s high officials, including Pol Pot and
Ieng Sary, remained in place in the CGDK, and no non-Communists
were given responsible positions. Despite their conversion to free market
economics, DK-controlled camps remained much stricter than those
controlled by other factions. People inside them were not allowed to leave,
military commanders attended annual study sessions as they had done in
the 1970s, and military aid continued to flow to the faction from China.8
The CGDK was unveiled in the middle of 1982. To display its
territorial base, some of its followers and armed units moved a few miles
across the border into Cambodia. DK representatives assumed control of
the CGDK’s foreign affairs (for a government in exile, the only
meaningful portfolio) and stayed on at the United Nations. Its military
forces were the best trained, most numerous, and most active of the three
factions. Sihanouk remained in Beijng under Chinese supervision, and Son
Sann soon lost even his limited freedom of maneuver. For the next ten
years, the three factions continued to distrust each other, and their
spokesmen made no promises about what Cambodians might expect if the
coalition ever came to power. Militarily, coalition forces, some forty
thousand men and women, were not particularly effective.
In 1983–85 Vietnamese and PRK troops drove the coalition’s forces
and their dependents back into Thailand and destroyed their
encampments. The PRK then conscripted tens of thousands of workers to
lay mines along the border and to block the approaches from Thailand into
Cambodia. Thousands died of disease and from land mines while this
work was going on.9
By 1983 the Vietnamese had raised and trained a PRK army, thirty
thousand strong, to defend the country when they eventually withdrew. As
in the past, conscription was often random, and privileged Cambodians,
particularly the children of PRPK cadres, often seemed immune. Instead,
they were favored for scholarships to study overseas. By 1988 some five
thousand Cambodians had undergone technical or academic training
abroad, principally in the Soviet Union, Cuba, and Eastern Europe.10
For the rest of the 1980s a military stalemate prevailed, but following
the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops in 1989, coalition troops
consolidated their bases inside the country, and DK troops captured the
gem-producing area near Pailin in northwestern Cambodia. Their forces
were unable or unwilling to follow this action up, and the resistance never
controlled any major towns.
Nonetheless, in 1990–91, DK forces in particular posed a serious
menace to the PRK. DK troops had occupied sparsely populated parts of
Cambodia’s northwest and southwest. At night they raided villages and
planted antipersonnel mines along paths and in rice fields, which sooner or
later killed unwary people or blew off their arms or legs. Eighty or ninety
casualties caused by these mines came into Cambodia’s hospitals and
clinics every week, and presumably hundreds of other victims were
untreated or had been killed. The war waged allegedly against the
Vietnamese, like Lon Nol’s in the 1970s, was now killing only Khmer.
Casualties from mines continued through the 1990s, until the minefields
had been cleared by international NGOs working with Khmer trainees.
THE VIETNAMESE WITHDRAWAL
Two key factors encouraged the Vietnamese to withdraw the last of their
troops from Cambodia in September 1989. One was the growing selfsufficiency
of the PRK, which earlier in the year had renamed itself the
State of Cambodia (SOC). Another was that Soviet aid, and aid from the
Soviet bloc, was sharply reduced in 1989 following crises that swept
through the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
Prior to the withdrawal the Cambodian government announced a
series of reforms that were widely popular, especially in Phnom Penh.
These included revising the national anthem, changing the flag, amending
the constitution to make Buddhism Cambodia’s state religion, and
abolishing the PRK statute that had limited monkhood to middle-aged
Khmer. New laws also allowed farmers to pass title to land on to their
children and householders to buy and sell real estate. The death penalty
was abolished in response to criticism of Cambodia’s human rights record.
Although the PRPK remained in charge of Cambodia’s political life, free
markets and black markets flourished, traditional cultural activities revived,
and collectivism was dead. The Cambodian government, on the other
hand, remained unchanged. Hun Sen, who had become prime minister of
the PRK in 1985, steadily consolidated his power.11
The new laws regarding Buddhism led to heavy expenditures,
especially by émigré Khmers, on Buddhist wats throughout the country.
Lifting restrictions on real estate produced a miniboom in speculation,
restoration, and rebuilding as Phnom Penh families squatting in villas with
government permission put the villas on the market inspired by rumors of
peace and the hopes of renewed foreign aid that would presumably follow.
During the boom, visitors to Phnom Penh noted the emergence of a small,
new elite identifiable by the cars they drove, the villas they lived in, and
their often-obnoxious behavior in restaurants and bars. Corruption in the
SOC never reached the levels that had existed under Sihanouk or Lon
Nol, but a quiet extraction of privileges had characterized PRPK cadres
and high-ranking government officials over the years. Many of them had
shouldered their way into business enterprises, including clandestine
trading operations between Thailand and the northwest; others were
assured comfortable houses, cars, and other perquisites.
Political changes in Eastern Europe and the economic boom elsewhere
in Southeast Asia gave the SOC some freedom of maneuver and
threatened its existence. Changes in Europe cut off aid from Communist
powers, and the boom encouraged entrepreneurs and SOC officials to seek
short-term returns from construction and the sale of government property
and raw materials. Timber, gems, dried fish, and other products exported
illicitly to Thailand and Vietnam earned little or no revenue for the SOC
which, deprived of extensive foreign assistance, was almost without funds.
The resistance factions, on the other hand, whose subsistence needs were
met by the United Nations and foreign aid and who had few bureaucrats
to pay and no services to provide, enjoyed the advantages of all guerrilla
movements.
Many of Cambodia’s problems were still imposed from outside the
country as they had so often been. In 1989–90 most observers agreed that,
without drastic changes in the foreign support that the SOC and the
government in exile were receiving, their problems would remain unsolved.
In July 1990, however, U.S. Secretary of State James Baker announced that
the United States would cease backing the CGDK’s representative at the
United Nations.
Baker’s move encouraged China to diminish its patronage of DK, and
observers soon became optimistic about the possibility of a diplomatic
breakthrough regarding Cambodia. Some hoped that the breakthrough
would involve a massive intervention by the United Nations, which might
establish a caretaker regime pending national elections.
THE UNTAC PERIOD AND AFTER
These hopes were fulfilled by decisions made at the international
conference on Cambodia that convened in Paris in October 1991. Under
the terms of agreements reached in Paris, a temporary government was
established in Phnom Penh comprising representatives of the incumbent
regime and delegates from the factions that had been opposing it since
1981. The four factions joined to form a Supreme National Council
(SNC) presided over by Prince Sihanouk, who returned briefly to
Cambodia in November 1991 after twelve years of exile and was warmly
welcomed in Phnom Penh. The SNC’s decisions were to be monitored by
UN representatives on the spot.
The Paris agreements coincided with the end of the Cold War. They
withdrew the patronage of larger powers from the Cambodian factions,
reinserting them in theory into a nonaligned Cambodia where they would
be free to compete for political advantage. Those in power in Phnom
Penh, however, enjoyed the advantages that usually flow to political
incumbents.
The arrangements envisaged in Paris were to be monitored in
Cambodia by UN personnel, pending disarmament and cantonment of the
factional troops, the repatriation of refugees from Thailand, and national
elections for a constituent assembly. To achieve these goals, the UN
established a multinational protectorate over Cambodia. During 1992
some thirteen thousand soldiers and over seven thousand civilians
including detachments of police took up residence in the country. Sluggish
UN procedures delayed recruitment and deployment. The United Nations
Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) arrived too late and
moved too slowly to gain the respect it needed from the Cambodian
factions. In May 1992 the Khmer Rouge expanded the territory under
their control, refused to be monitored by the UN, and refused to disarm its
forces. They were not punished or chastised. The SOC, in response, also
refused to disarm and refused to allow the UN to oversee the daily
operations of its powerful national police, although such oversight was a
feature of the Paris agreements.12
UNTAC embarked on its Utopian mission slowly and with
understandable foreboding. Its mandate was ambiguous, its time was
limited, and most of its personnel knew nothing about Cambodia. By the
time the mission ended in October 1993, UNTAC had spent over $2
billion, making it the most costly operation to date in UN history. Much
of the money had gone into inflated salaries. Phnom Penh grew more
crowded and more prosperous, but the rural economy remained stagnant.
The country’s infrastructure was still abysmal, and security was marred by a
spate of politically motivated killings. Khmer Rouge forces, claiming that
Vietnam remained secretly in control of the country, massacred over a
hundred Vietnamese civilians in the UNTAC era. The SOC police, in
turn, targeted activists belonging to opposing political parties. In 1992–93
over two hundred unarmed people were victims of politically motivated
assassinations. None of the offenders was ever arrested or brought to trial.
On a positive note, the Cambodian media enjoyed unaccustomed
freedom in the UNTAC period. Local human rights organizations,
unthinkable in earlier times, also flourished. These organizations received
Sihanouk’s support and backing from the human rights component of
UNTAC, which trained hundreds of Khmer human rights workers and
investigated hundreds of complaints.
Other positive developments in this period, from UNTAC’s point of
view, were the peaceful repatriation of over three hundred thousand
Cambodian refugees from Thailand and the national elections themselves,
which took place on schedule in July 1993 following a massive voterregistration
campaign conducted by UN workers. Contrary to the fears of
many, the elections, although boycotted by the Khmer Rouge, were
peaceful. Over 90 percent of the registered voters—at least 4 million
people—went to the polls in Cambodia’s freest, fairest, and most secret
election since the colonial era. The message that the voters delivered was
ambiguous. A royalist party using the acronym FUNCINPEC and led by
Prince Sihanouk’s eldest son, Norodom Rannaridh, won seven more seats
for a constituent assembly than the Cambodian Peoples’ Party (CPP), the
lineal descendant of the KPRP. An anti-Communist, anti-Vietnamese
party won ten of the remaining eleven seats.
For the first time in their history, a majority of Cambodians had voted
against an armed, incumbent government. Unlike most Cambodian voters
in the past, they had courageously rejected the status quo. What they were
voting for, aside from peace, was much less clear.
Hun Sen and the CPP, however refused to accept defeat. By the end of
1993, a fragile compromise was reached whereby FUNCINPEC and the
CPP formed a coalition government with two prime ministers, Prince
Rannaridh and Hun Sen. Cabinet posts were divided among the parties
represented in the assembly. Day-to-day political power in the form of
provincial governorships, defense, the national police, and the entire civil
service remained under CPP control. The royalist party soon lost its voice
in decision making as well as its freedom of maneuver.
Cambodia’s new constitution restored the monarchy and placed
Sihanouk on the throne he had abandoned in 1955. Becoming king again
pleased the 71-year-old monarch and his wife, who were eager to erase a
personally humiliating period of history and to reestablish themselves as
Cambodia’s legitimate rulers. For the rest of the 1990s, however, with the
monarch pleading poor health, the couple spent long periods of each year
outside the country.
The losers in 1993, aside from the people who had voted against the
government, were the Khmer Rouge. The movement was formally
outlawed in 1994, and thousands of its followers defected to the
government. Its leaders remained unrepentant, in hiding, and in good
health. In the mid-1990s the Khmer Rouge still had over five thousand
men and women under arms. As Thai government support for the
movement faded in 1994–95, however, and as defections increased, the
Khmer Rouge became more violent, massacring timber workers,
kidnapping and killing a half-dozen foreigners, and mounting sporadic
military attacks. Scattered evidence at the time, confirmed later, suggested
that the leadership had fragmented after the elections, and that the
movement was split between those willing to effect a modus vivendi with
the Phnom Penh authorities and those wanting to rekindle a fullscale
revolutionary conflict.
THE END OF THE KHMER ROUGE
Ieng Sary, the former DK foreign minister, defected to Phnom Penh in
August 1996. He quickly received a royal pardon and was allowed to
remain, with thousands of adherents, in his enclave of Pailin. Over the
next few months, hundreds of Khmer Rouge soldiers were absorbed into
the national army. Efforts inaugurated at the time to bring the Khmer
Rouge leaders to trial for crimes against humanity, despite or perhaps
partly because of foreign pressure, came to nothing.13
During this time the Khmer Rouge fragmented further. The effective
leader of the disintegrating movement was Ta Mok, a brutal military
commander. Pol Pot, suffering from poor health, was sidelined, but in
June 1997, in an effort to regain control, the former dictator ordered the
assassination of Son Sen, a high-ranking cadre and close associate whom
he accused of treason. The assassination, which involved killing Son Sen’s
children and grandchildren, shocked middle-ranking Khmer Rouge cadre,
who assumed they might be next. Fearing arrest, Pol Pot fled his
headquarters but was soon captured and put on trial in a bizarre
proceeding filmed by the American journalist Nate Thayer, who had been
invited to attend. Subjected to the brutal winners’ justice that had sent
hundreds of thousands of Cambodians to their deaths in the DK era, Pol
Pot was condemned to life imprisonment, and was led away under guard
to his two-room house.14
THE COUP DE FORCE OF 1997
In the meantime the Phnom Penh regime was encountering difficulties of
its own. A grenade attack against peacefully demonstrating supporters of
Sam Rainsy in March 1997 claimed over twenty lives, and perennial
tensions between the CCP and FUNCINPEC were exacerbated by Hun
Sen’s acceptance of so many Khmer Rouge defectors into the national
army, and in effect into his entourage. Generals loyal to FUNCINPEC
sought without success to negotiate with Khmer Rouge elements led by Ta
Mok. Their efforts angered Hun Sen, and in July 1997, using troops of his
personal bodyguard, he launched a preemptive coup against
FUNCINPEC troops and followers in Phnom Penh. In the attack over a
hundred FUNCINPEC officials and supporters were killed, several of
them after being arrested and tortured. CCP casualties were minimal.
Widespread looting accompanied the coup.15
Although the violence of the coup was not surprising, its timing from
an international perspective was inept. Several donor nations suspended
aid. Foreign investment dried up. Cambodia’s membership in ASEAN
was delayed. After consolidating his power in a manner that had seemed
appropriate, Hun Sen was treated for a time as a pariah. Donor nations
urged him to sponsor free and fair elections in 1998, as scheduled, for the
National Assembly.
Neither the CCP nor FUNCINPEC wanted to repeat the experience
of 1993. The CCP feared another defeat, while FUNCINPEC and
smaller parties feared a renewal of violence. Nonetheless, as negotiations
for elections crept forward, many observers believed that the CCP would
gain an overwhelming victory.
The run-up to the 1998 election seemed to confirm these suspicions.
Opposition parties were given no access to the electronic media and were
not allowed to campaign in the countryside. Opposition party workers
were harassed, and several died under suspicious circumstances. None of
the perpetrators of violence in the coup was brought to justice. Prince
Rannaridh returned to the country in March 1998, less than four months
before the elections, and campaigned with surprising vigor. So did Sam
Rainsy, who courageously attacked the CCP and drew widespread support.
The elections themselves were free and fair in the view of local and
foreign electoral observers. Parties opposed to the CCP garnered 60
percent of the votes but were unwilling to form an alliance, and so
arrangements were made between FUNCINPEC and the CCP to govern
the country in another coalition. By the end of 1998 the new government
had gotten off to a relatively good start. In April 1999 Cambodia was
welcomed into ASEAN, the last country in the region to be admitted.16
Political, social and economic conditions in Cambodia at the end of
the twentieth century were unsettling to most observers. The country
suffered from the highest infant mortality rates in Southeast Asia. Less
than a third of the population had access to clean water, and 2 percent of
the adult population suffered from HIV/AIDS. The government, which
spent only 5 percent of its funds on health, spent 40 percent on defense,
largely to pay its enormous army, which by 2003 consisted of one hundred
thousand soldiers, five hundred of whom were generals. Foreign donors
and NGOs, despite officially expressed impatience, continued to pay for
much of Cambodia’s health care, education, social welfare, and rural
development—all areas of the economy where there were few
opportunities for people to get rich. Year after year, anticorruption laws
were drafted in the National Assembly (usually by opposition members)
but died in committee. The educational system functioned so poorly that
illiteracy, running at over 50 percent, was higher than it had been in the
1960s. Violent crimes, rare in prerevolutionary times, were now frequent,
and unrestrained logging often carried out by military units was having
disastrous ecological effects.
Monks, Siem Reap, 2003. Photo by Douglas Niven.
More positively, in 1999 Cambodia was at peace for the first time since
the 1960s. For the first time in decades its government was not dependent
on a predominant foreign patron. Instead, Cambodia was taking part in
the affairs of Southeast Asia from which the Cold War and its own
regimes had placed it at arm’s length since independence. Despite Hun
Sen’s authoritarian style, print media in Cambodia were relatively
unrestrained, and foreign human rights organizations were still free to
operate in the country. Fueled by its burgeoning garment industry, which
provided employment to over three hundred thousand young women, and
by a boom in tourism, Cambodia’s GDP grew by an a average of 6 percent
a year between 1998 and 2006. The rural economy, on the other hand,
grew more slowly. As a mixed blessing, Cambodia’s population doubled
between 1979 and 2006 when it reached 14 million, even though one baby
in ten died at birth or shortly thereafter. Nearly 40 percent of the
population was under sixteen.
In the first years of the new century, Hun Sen, who relished the title of
strong man, astutely consolidated himself in power. He was heavily
guarded and could count on the support of the army, most of the CPP,
and local business interests buttressed by unconditional aid from China.
He was popular in the countryside where patronage networks were largely
controlled by the CPP and where his alleged personal largesse (often
financed by foreign donors), like Sihanouk’s in the past, produced shortterm
waves of adulation. So did his marathon speeches and his robust,
often brutal use of language. His disdain for parliamentary procedures was
as intense as Sihanouk’s had been, and so was his indifference to the rule
of law. Under Hun Sen, no officials have ever been convicted of
corruption, and no one suspected of political assassinations has ever come
to trial. In other ways Hun Sen is a new type of national leader. Unlike
previous Cambodian rulers, he had spent no time as a monk. Unlike
Sihanouk, Lon Nol, and Pol Pot, he has not shown much interest in
Cambodia’s past except as a source of revenue from tourists, over a million
of whom visited Cambodia in 2005 and again in 2006. Perhaps because he
owed his position to the Vietnamese, he never indulged in the racialist
anti-Vietnamese rhetoric of some of his opponents. Finally, Hun Sen was
to a large extent a self-made man, without ongoing obligations to foreign
patrons. Arguably he has been the first genuinely modern leader of the
country. His eagerness for Cambodia to become a prosperous, modern
nation—like Singapore, or Malaysia, perhaps—was obviously sincere, but
his inability or unwillingness to crack down on widespread corruption in
the government and to divert revenue from the army and other favored
bodies to the countryside impeded economic progress and discouraged
long-term foreign investment.17
TWENTY-FIRST-CENTURY CAMBODIA
In 2002, CPP candidates captured two-thirds of the communes in national
commune elections (for over ten thousand communes in the country). At
the time, Hun Sen said that he would be happy to rule the country for
another ten years at least. However, in the National Assembly elections of
2003—declared free and fair again by local and foreign observers—
opposition to the CPP was still substantial, especially in Phnom Penh and
other large towns. In these elections fewer people went to the polls than
previously. The CPP gained five seats, FUNCINPEC lost seventeen, and
the Sam Rainsy Party (SRP) gained nine. The CPP was unable to
assemble the two-thirds parliamentary majority set out by the constitution
as a mandate to govern the country. A stalemate occurred that lasted for
several months, until a new CPP-FUNCINPEC coalition brokered by
Hun Sen and his colleagues was formed, with Prince Rannaridh sidelined
and the CPP firmly in command.18
Earlier in the year, riots in Phnom Penh destroyed the Thai embassy
and severely damaged several Thai-owned businesses in the capital. The
rioters were responding to rumors that a Thai TV actress had claimed in
her program (erroneously, as things turned out) that Angkor “belonged to
the Thai.  It seems likely that the riots had Hun Sen’s informal backing
(police and firefighters were very slow to react), and that commercial
rivalries between Thai and Cambodian companies of interest to those in
power in Phnom Penh were involved. Using funds provided for the most
part by Cambodian-owned casinos operating along the Thai border that
catered to Thai gamblers, Cambodia swiftly paid the $20 million that
Bangkok demanded as reparations, and diplomatic relations resumed. The
riots showed that mobs could be quickly organized in the capital, especially
when Cambodia’s amour propre was challenged, that large sums of money
could be raised quickly by the government for unexpected crises, and that
Cambodian resentment, especially in Phnom Penh, about Thai
domination of the Khmer economy ran deep.19
In October 2004, Norodom Sihanouk, in ill health and exhausted by
years of verbal conflict with Hun Sen, resigned from the kingship. His
youngest son, Norodom Sihamoni, a mild-mannered bachelor who had
spent most of his life outside the country, succeeded him. For some time,
portraits of Sihamoni joined those of his parents in public buildings
without replacing them, but Sihanouk no longer took part in royal
ceremonies and continued to spend almost all of his time in Beijing.
Siahmoni’s childlessness and Hun Sen’s ongoing wariness toward the
palace may foreshadow the eventual demise of monarchy as an institution
in Cambodia—perhaps after Sihanouk’s death.20
Two key developments in Cambodia since 2004 have been the
discovery of massive oil deposits in parts of the Gulf of Thailand that lie in
Cambodia’s territorial waters and the establishment in 2006, after years of
negotiations, of a tribunal in Phnom Penh to indict former leaders of the
Khmer Rouge.
Offshore oil exploration, dominated by the U.S. firm Chevron-Texaco,
began in 2000, following assessments made in prerevolutionary times, and
cost the firm over $20 million. In 2006 Chevron announced that
Cambodia had confirmed deposits of seven hundred million barrels of oil
and perhaps ten million cubic feet of natural gas. Because these estimates
applied only to those portions of the area already explored by the firm, the
actual deposits could be much higher. The deposits should provide annual
revenues of $1 billion, starting in 2009 or 2010, for at least a decade.21
This amount is twice Cambodia’s current (2006) annual budget and
roughly twice the amount that the kingdom receives every year from
foreign donors. Whether the deposits will turn out to be a blessing or a
curse remains to be seen. The result will depend on how the revenue is
spent by the government, especially in an era when foreign assistance will
be significantly lower because of the deposits. Given the government’s
failure to account for the uses of tourist revenue—the entry fees to the
Angkor park in particular—and its unwillingness to tax wealthy members
of society so as to pay more for health, social welfare, infrastructure, and
education, it is hard to predict that the oil revenues will be used to any
great extent to pull Cambodia’s rural poor out of grinding poverty or to
improve the welfare of the entire population.
Negotiations between the Cambodian government and the United
Nations for an international tribunal to indict leaders of the Khmer Rouge
proceeded by fits and starts for almost a decade before agreement was
reached at the end of 2006. Costs of the three-year effort were estimated at
$60 million, nearly all of which was met by foreign donors. The
Cambodian government insisted that the tribunal take place in Cambodia
with the participation of local judges and lawyers as well as international
ones. It did so despite the inexperience of Cambodian jurists in cases of
this kind and despite fears on the part of some international observers that
the Cambodians would follow instructions from Hun Sen (who would
outlast the tribunal and had never shown much enthusiasm for it) instead
of demonstrating their independence. Proceedings got off to a slow start in
early 2007 as procedures were being ironed out.22
CONCLUSION
Cambodian political history since World War II, and probably for a much
longer period, can be characterized in part as a chronic failure of
contending groups of patrons and their clients to compromise, cooperate,
or share power. These hegemonic tendencies, familiar in other Southeast
Asian countries, have deep roots in Cambodia’s past.
In the 1950s and 1960s, Prince Sihanouk’s narcissistic style encouraged
his enemies when they replaced him to be equally high-handed,
uncompromising, and self-absorbed. Alternative notions of pluralism or a
peaceful transfer of power did not exist then and had little traction in
Cambodia thirty-five years later.
After 1970, Sihanouk, Lon Nol, Pol Pot, and to a lesser extent Hun
Sen sought absolute power for themselves. Under Pol Pot this took the
form of a national vendetta. The Leninist politics he favored and the
purges he carried out were far worse than anything else in Cambodia’s
recent history, but they reflected time-honored ideas of winner-takes-all
political behavior. Under the Vietnamese protectorate, Cambodian
politicians were more cautious (as Sihanouk had been when the French
were in control), but in the post-UNTAC era those in power reverted to
form and became thin-skinned, vengeful, conspiratorial, and abrupt.
In Pol Pot’s secret prison in Phnom Penh, interrogators used the
phrase “doing politics  to describe the ritual of indoctrination, questioning,
and torture. To many Cambodians without power before and since,
politics has been synonymous with exploitation alternating with neglect.
The 1993 elections, for many Khmer, were an attempt to liberate
themselves from the politics that had dominated the country for so long.
Subsequent elections, as we have seen, failed to alter the status quo.
Although it is fruitful to study Cambodian political history from a
Cambodian perspective, as this book has tried to do, the country’s location,
topography, and demographic weakness have meant that its history has
often been entangled with Thailand and Vietnam and the polities that
preceded them. These countries, in turn and because of their size, have
consistently tried to patronize or absorb their neighbor. Having Vietnam
next door in the 1820s and 1830s led to a Vietnamese protectorate, and de
facto Thai protectorates had been in effect at several points in the
preceding centuries. In the 1860s the French loosened what had become
Thai control over the Cambodian court and removed Cambodia from
much of Southeast Asia by making it part of Indochina, which is to say a
surrogate of Vietnam. In the 1940s and 1950s, Cambodian resistance to
the French was dominated by the Vietnamese and served their interests.
Later still, the fighting in Vietnam, exacerbated by U.S. intervention,
reduced Cambodia’s capacity to remain neutral or to control its eastern
frontier. Sihanouk knew that his country would be swept into the fighting
and could never emerge a victor. Unlike Lon Nol or Pol Pot, the prince
had no illusions about Cambodia’s military strength.
Before 1979 it was difficult for any Cambodian government to
contemplate an alliance with Vietnam. The friendship cobbled together by
Sihanouk and the Vietnamese Communists collapsed as soon as Sihanouk
was overthrown. Spurred on by their resentments, Lon Nol and Pol Pot
conducted doomed and vicious military campaigns against Vietnam. After
Vietnam invaded the country at the end of 1978, it imposed a protectorate
that was reminiscent in some ways of French colonialism and the 1830s.
Relations between Cambodia and Thailand have been somewhat
different. Despite, or perhaps because of, cultural affinities, relations have
never been marked by a sincere effort on the part of Bangkok to treat
Cambodia as a sovereign nation. In the 1830s, in World War II, and again
in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1980s, the Thai worked to subvert what they
perceived to be hostile governments in Phnom Penh. Relations between
the two countries have recently begun to mature, but the anti-Thai riots of
2003 suggest that genuine friendship between the two peoples will be
difficult to achieve.
The Paris agreements, UNTAC, and the elections of 1993 thrust
Cambodia into the world of Southeast Asia from which it had been
isolated, by accident or design, since the eighteenth century. No longer an
isolated player, a protectorate, or a component of Indochina, Cambodia
became part of a region about which its people knew little and for whose
modernity they were largely unprepared.
Cambodia’s past greatness, as reconstructed and presented to the
Cambodians by the French, is another aspect of its history that has
weighed heavily on most of its leaders. In the 1950s and 1960s, Sihanouk
allowed himself to be compared favorably to Jayavarman VII. Similarly,
Lon Nol claimed that he had a divine mission to rescue Cambodia from
“unbelievers  (thmil). Pol Pot, announcing that his forces had singlehandedly
defeated the United States, was similarly misled. In his marathon
1977 speech he remarked, “If our people can build Angkor, they are
capable of anything.  Hun Sen, to his credit, seems to have abandoned this
kind of addictive nostalgia and sees himself as the leader of a small,
modernizing country in the modern world.
The combination of personality, domineering political habits,
proximity to Thailand and Vietnam, and unrealistic notions of innate
greatness blended from the 1940s onward into a volatile form of
nationalism which dominated the political scene for many years and which
even now is occasionally called back into play by opposition politicians in
Phnom Penh.
Intense and widely shared conservatism, perhaps, and the tempestuous
changes in the country since 1970 have made many Cambodians reluctant
to resist or even consider changing the social arrangements and political
leadership that have given them so many centuries of suffering and
injustice. Traditions of deference, fatalism, and hegemony enshrined in
these arrangements form much of the unwritten substance of Cambodia’s
two thousand years of history and provide insights into the country’s
politics and culture that are less apt when applied to Thailand or Vietnam.
Much of Cambodia’s uniqueness, I would argue, springs from deep
continuities or refusals, rather than from calculated or prudent responses to
the rapid and often destructive influences of modern times. Pol Pot’s
revolution failed in part because so many Cambodians, finding its premises
painful and irrelevant, were unwilling to carry it out. Similarly, a decade of
Vietnamese occupation and experiments with a far less demanding form of
socialism left few lasting marks. In the 1993 elections, millions of
Cambodians voted for change but chose to look backward rather than
ahead. This tendency has altered in recent years, especially in the towns,
but deep conservatism persists among older people and in rural areas.
Boys on a bridge, Phnom Penh, 1996. Photo by Douglas Niven.
The so-called timelessness of Cambodia, made up to a large extent of
its people’s perennial, self-absorbed terms of reference, has been part of its
appeal to visitors and scholars for many years. In the Pol Pot period this
conservatism was a source of enormous strength; in the end it was
conservatism that, at enormous human cost, defeated the DK regime. But
as the country opens up to a confused and confusing world, without the
promise of anyone’s sustained protection, it is uncertain if this inwardlooking,
family-oriented conservatism, so helpful in surviving the
incursions of foreign powers and foreign ideas, will be of much help if
Cambodia hopes to flourish as a twenty-first-century state. It is also
uncertain if notions of human rights, pluralism, and the rule of law,
concepts brought into Cambodia in recent years, have taken root in a
significant way among those holding power in the country, who continue
to act, as previous leaders have done, as if these imported concepts had no
bearing on their behavior or on how the country is governed. The
predicted surge in oil revenues (discussed above) will probably reduce the
leverage that foreign donors have exercised over Cambodia since 1992.
Whether Cambodia’s newfound economic independence will benefit
ordinary Khmer more than those in power remains to be seen. With a
soaring birth rate, poor health, and a government that seems to be
unprepared to be genuinely responsive to people’s needs, the prospects for
the short and medium term appear to be very bleak. However, the
resilience, talents, and desires of the Cambodian people, and their ability
to defy predictions, suggest that a more optimistic assessment of their
future might possibly be in order.