Support from viewers like you makes this program possible.
Please give to your PBS station.
Coming home from Vietnam was close to as traumatic as the war itself.
For years, nobody talked about Vietnam.
We were friends with a young couple and it was only after 12 years that the two wives were talking, found out that we both had been Marines in Vietnam.
Never said a word about it.
Never mentioned it.
And the whole country was like that.
It was so divisive.
And it's like living in a family with an alcoholic father.
Shh, we don't talk about that. Our country did that with Vietnam.
It's only been very recently that, I think, that, you know, the baby boomers are finally starting to say, "What happened? What happened?" What we need now in this country is to heal the wounds and to put Vietnam behind us.
The killing in this tragic war must stop.
General Westmoreland's strategy is producing results.
The enemy is no longer closer to victory.
No matter how you measure it, we're better off than we thought we would be at this time.
You have been less than candid as to how deeply we are involved in Vietnam.
We have increased our assistance to the government, its logistics.
We have not sent combat troops there.
You have a row of dominoes set up and you knock over the first one and the last one, certainly it will go over.
If aggression is successful in Korea, we can expect it to spread throughout Asia and Europe and to this hemisphere.
Viktor Frankl, who survived the death camps in World War II, wrote a book called Man's Search for Meaning.
You know, "To live is to suffer.
America's involvement in Vietnam began in secrecy.
It ended, 30 years later, in failure, witnessed by the entire world.
It was begun in good faith by decent people out of fateful misunderstandings, American overconfidence, and Cold War miscalculation.
And it was prolonged because it seemed easier to muddle through than admit that it had been caused by tragic decisions, made by five American presidents, belonging to both political parties.
Before the war was over, more than 58,000 Americans would be dead.
At least 250,000 South Vietnamese troops died in the conflict, as well.
So did over one million North Vietnamese soldiers and Viet Cong guerrillas.
Two million civilians, north and south, are thought to have perished, as well as tens of thousands more in the neighboring states of Laos and Cambodia.
For many Vietnamese, it was a brutal civil war.
For others, the bloody climactic chapter in a century-old struggle for independence.
For those Americans who fought in it, and for those who fought against it back home, as well as for those who merely glimpsed it on the nightly news, the Vietnam War was a decade of agony, the most divisive period since the Civil War.
Vietnam seemed to call everything into question, the value of honor and gallantry, the qualities of cruelty and mercy, the candor of the American government, and what it means to be a patriot.
And those who lived through it have never been able to erase its memory, have never stopped arguing about what really happened, why everything went so badly wrong, who was to blame, and whether it was all worth it.
It has been forty years.
Even the Vietnamese veterans, we avoid talking about the war.
People sing about victory, about liberation. They're wrong.
Who won and who lost is not a question.
In war, no one wins or loses.
There is only destruction.
Only those who have never fought like to argue about who won and who lost.
The French attacked and seized our country in the middle of the 19th century.
The invasion was bloody and cruel.
The French conquest of Indochina began with an attack on the ancient Vietnamese port of Da Nang in 1858.
It took 50 years to lay claim to the whole region, Laos and Cambodia, as well as the 1,200-mile-long area that would come to be called Vietnam.
All of it was ruled by a French governor-general from his palace in Hanoi.
The French largely lived on plantation estates, and in cities, like Saigon, made to look as much as possible like those at home.
Most did not even bother to learn the language spoken by their subjects.
Instead, they installed a series of puppet emperors and employed a network of French-speaking Vietnamese officials, mandarins, willing to carry out their wishes.
The French put their subjects to work building roads and canals, railroads and bridges.
Of course, the French were proud of their civilization, which they boasted of bringing to the Vietnamese people.
Of course, the Vietnamese people didn't need French civilization.
What they needed was independence.
The Vietnamese people did not take easily to French occupation, just as they had fought against earlier invasions by the Chinese.
By the early 20th century, nationalism was on the rise.
But anyone who dared resist colonial rule risked exile, prison, or the guillotine.
They control everything, the resources from our country.
But mostly they took our independence and our freedom.
When I was a small child, I got nationalism already from school.
I always looked at the French as my enemy.
My enemy.
To the French, the Vietnamese were an inferior people.
In Vietnam, there was no "egalite." It was why we hated them so much.
My hatred for them was pure.
Pure.
I hated them so much.
And I was so scared of them.
Boy, I was terrified of them.
And the scareder I got, the more I hated them.
I was an 18-year-old Marine rifleman with the ink still wet on my high school diploma.
I didn't want to shame myself in front of my buddies.
But I was so scared.
I felt like I was hanging onto my honor by my fingernails the whole time I was there.
In the spring of 1919, as the victorious Allied powers met in Paris to rebuild a world shattered by the Great War, President Woodrow Wilson headed the American delegation housed in the Hotel Crillon.
One day, a tall, slender, 29-year-old man appeared with a petition for the president he and other Vietnamese nationalists had written.
Inspired by Wilson's declaration that the interests of colonial peoples should be given equal weight with those of their European rulers, the man was asking that this principle be applied to his homeland.
The President's secretary promised to show it to Wilson, but there is no evidence that he ever did.
His name was Nguyen Tat Thanh, but he was now living under an alias, Nguyen Ai Quoc.
Nguyen the Patriot. During his long, shadowy career, he would adopt some 70 different pseudonyms, finally settling on "the most enlightened one," Ho Chi Minh.
Ho Chi Minh was a man who succeeded in projecting an image of somebody who was totally dedicated to freeing his country and his people from foreign domination to the point that he sacrificed his own well-being, his own life, not having a family of his own.
To Vietnamese, that's a big sacrifice because to us everybody needs a family.
Ho Chi Minh was born in 1890, the son of a minor official in the French regime.
After taking part in a demonstration against the puppet emperor and the Frenchmen who pulled his strings, Ho was expelled from school and marked for arrest.
He left Vietnam in 1911 and remained in exile for 30 years.
He served as a cook's helper aboard a French liner, and visited New York and Boston, where he worked for a time as a pastry chef at the Parker House.
He shoveled snow in London, tinted photographs in Paris.
There, Ho Chi Minh joined the French Socialist Party.
But when he discovered the anti-colonial writings of Lenin, he became a communist.
He was invited to Moscow to study, underwent training as a Soviet agent, was sometimes criticized for being a nationalist first, a communist second, and then was dispatched to China to organize a cell of other Vietnamese exiles and help establish the Indochinese Communist Party.
Through it all, "he was taut and quivering," a friend remembered, "with only one thought, his country, Vietnam." By 1940, much of the world was at war again.
Germany had seized most of Western Europe, including France.
Imperial Japan threatened many of the European colonies in Asia, and occupied Vietnam, where they permitted their allies, the collaborationist French, to continue to oversee their colony.
To some Vietnamese, the coming of the Japanese seemed to signal a welcome end to white colonial rule.
But Ho Chi Minh, still in exile in China, saw the Japanese as alien invaders, no more welcome than the French.
They were only interested in exploiting his country and seizing Vietnamese crops to fill their own rice bowls.
The time had come, he said, to rally "patriots of all ages and all types, peasants, workers, merchants and soldiers to defeat the Japanese and the collaborationist French." In February of 1941, after three decades away from his homeland, Ho Chi Minh slipped back across the Chinese border into Vietnam and set up headquarters near the remote village of Pac Bo in a limestone cave at the side of a mountain he named for Karl Marx, overlooking a jungle stream he named for his hero, Lenin.
There, he founded a revolutionary movement, which he called the Vietnam Independence League, the Viet Minh.
Everybody wants to join the Viet Minh to fight.
Mostly nobody knew about the Viet Minh...
...as a communist organization.
To build and lead a fighting force for his revolution, Ho called upon Vo Nguyen Giap, a one-time teacher of French history who had instructed the children of Hanoi's elite.
Giap was an early convert to communism, whose life-long hatred for the French intensified when they beat his wife to death in prison.
Inspired by Napoleon, Lawrence of Arabia, and the communist Chinese revolutionary Mao Zedong, Giap had already begun to develop a distinctive theory of warfare that relied on guerrilla tactics until a full-scale conventional attack could be mounted.
In the fight for independence which he believed was coming, his armies, Giap said, would be "everywhere and nowhere." The reason Vietnamese had always resort to guerrilla warfare was because we were a small country.
And it was just a way of fight the weak against the strong.
Don't fight unless you're sure you can win, and surprise is a big element.
Choose your own battle.
I had about 26 guys that day out of 45.
We were always somewhat under-strength.
And this day we were quite under-strength.
My platoon's on point.
Go, go, go, go, go! And all of a sudden the very point man, the first guy in the column, said, "VC on the trail.
VC on the trail." Before I had a chance to digest this...
...he went down, shot right through the chest.
And what was a very well-laid ambush erupted.
I knew I'd lost a bunch of guys.
I said a prayer to God saying, basically, "If you need any more guys from my platoon, take me.
Don't take any more of my men." As soon as I said it, I freaked myself out and said, "Holy shit.
Can I take that prayer back?" By the spring of 1945, more than three years after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the United States government was looking for allies behind the lines in Vietnam.
The Americans were hoping to find a way to undermine Japanese forces there when they were contacted by Ho Chi Minh.
And so it was decided to drop an OSS team in to meet with the Viet Minh leadership.
Paul Hoagland was the medic on the team.
And the first thing he was told was that he must attend to their leader, who was desperately sick.
So he was taken to a grass shack where a bewhiskered, skinny man lay on a bundle of straw, desperately ill.
And that was Ho Chi Minh.
The OSS, the secret wartime precursor of the CIA, supplied Ho's ragtag guerrillas with arms and marveled at how quickly they learned to handle them.
Ho Chi Minh began to call his followers the Viet-American Army, and praised the United States as a champion of democracy that would surely help them end colonial rule.
We saw the Americans coming.
And when we look at the Americans, ...we consider them as a kind of free man liberating the people.
They have liberated Europe already.
Meanwhile, famine gripped the northern part of the country.
Hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese were dying of starvation while Japanese storehouses were filled with rice.
In those days, garbage was collected by people pushing carts.
And my mother remembers that every morning she would see these garbage carts going around and people picking up dead bodies and throwing them on the carts.
It was incredible.
And people who lived through it never, never forgot.
Duong Van Mai's father was the deputy governor of a province east of Hanoi, the son and grandson of mandarins who had all served the French.
He and his wife had 17 children.
Parents who had children who were, you know, plump, were very afraid of their children being stolen and killed.
And it was really like hell on earth.
The government didn't have a clue on how to deal with this calamity.
But Ho Chi Minh did.
He directed the Viet Minh to break into the Japanese storehouses wherever they could and distribute the rice to the people.
They were hailed as saviors.
When an atomic bomb destroyed Hiroshima, and three days later, a second one destroyed Nagasaki, Japanese surrender seemed imminent.
Ho Chi Minh called upon all Vietnamese to rise up and take over their own country before the Free French could reestablish their old colonial regime.
They did, in cities and towns across the country.
On September 2nd, 1945, the same day the Japanese formally surrendered, hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese streamed into Ba Dinh Square in Hanoi to see for the first time the mysterious leader of the Viet Minh and hear him proclaim Vietnam's independence.
With an OSS officer standing nearby, Ho Chi Minh began with the words of Thomas Jefferson, "All men are created equal.
They are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." All Vietnamese people, not just me, felt that from now on Vietnam would be independent, free, unified, territorially secure, and officially named on the map of the world.
Everybody was so proud.
Ho Chi Minh had great hopes that the US would support the Vietnam desire for independence, not necessarily by intervening but by doing what it could to support an independence movement.
Ho Chi Minh's hopes for American support were calculated but understandable.
President Franklin Roosevelt had promised a postwar world that would "respect the rights of all peoples to choose the form of government under which they live." But Roosevelt was dead now, and his successor, Harry Truman, had inherited a very different world.
The alliance with the Soviet Union that had won the Second World War had collapsed.
The Soviets now occupied the Eastern European countries they had overrun, and hoped to spread their influence farther, into Iran, Turkey, and the Mediterranean.
A new Cold War had begun.
French president Charles De Gaulle warned that if the United States insisted on independence for her colonies, France might have no choice but to fall into the Russian orbit.
The United States must do nothing to undercut the restoration of France's empire, including Vietnam.
There were hardly any Americans in Vietnam, you know, State Department people, consular officials, a few businessmen.
Hardly anyone from this country knew where Vietnam was located.
George Wickes was part of a seven-man OSS mission sent to Saigon, the largest city in the south.
The United States was officially neutral, hoping the French and Viet Minh could reach some peaceful solution on their own.
Allied leaders had agreed temporarily to divide Vietnam into two separate zones.
Nationalist Chinese troops were to handle things in the north.
British colonial troops would try to perform the same task in the south, where rival factions, including the French and Viet Minh, were already fighting in the streets of Saigon.
No one was in charge.
On both sides, there was brutality and atrocity and violence.
It wasn't quite a civil war, but it was getting very close to civil war in the streets of Saigon.
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Dewey, the 28-year-old commander of the OSS in Saigon, tried to make sense of it all.
Right from the start, he was in touch with everybody, not only the French, but very soon he established a connection with various Vietnamese groups.
The Viet Minh soon established themselves as the most successful.
Dewey, who spoke fluent French, brokered talks between a Viet Minh spokesman and the senior French representative in the city.
His efforts infuriated British general Douglas Gracey, who commanded Allied forces in the south.
Gracey was convinced that French control should be reimposed as soon as possible.
By conferring with the Viet Minh, Gracey said, Colonel Dewey had become a subversive force.
The violence in and around Saigon escalated.
Colonel Dewey urgently cabled his superiors.
Vietnam "is burning," he wrote.
The French and British are finished here and the United States, he concluded, "ought to clear out of Southeast Asia." Two days later, September 26th, 1945, he set out for the airport, prepared to fly to OSS headquarters.
At a roadblock, the Viet Minh mistook Dewey for a Frenchman and opened fire.
He was killed instantly.
Ho Chi Minh wrote to the United States lamenting the death of Dewey, whom he recognized as a person sympathetic to his cause.
It seemed a terrible irony that Dewey, who was doing what he could to help the Vietnamese independence movement should have been killed by the Vietnamese by a mistake.
- - An elderly African-American woman answered the door.
I think she knew the instant she saw us why we were there.
And the padre said, uh, "I'm... I'm terribly sorry to inform you, but your son was killed in Vietnam." And she just sat down. Didn't say a word.
Then the... Her husband says, "No, there's a mistake." He comes back with this letter.
And he said, "Look, see? We got it yesterday. Our son was still alive yesterday." And the chaplain looked at the letter and he said, "It's a week old.
I think your son was killed on the day he wrote this letter." In the fall of 1945, a week after Colonel Dewey's death, fresh French troops began arriving in Saigon, taking over from the British.
They quickly established control of the city and set out to reoccupy the entire country.
Ho Chi Minh hoped somehow to achieve independence without a war with France, and he still hoped the United States would intervene.
You never had an empire, never exploited the Asian peoples, he would tell a visiting American journalist.
Do not be blinded by this issue of communism. He did not want to fight the French as an enemy of America.
And, in fact, I saw the letters he wrote to President Truman saying, "We believe in the same things you believe." Those letters I saw in the CIA files, they had never been given to President Truman.
In June of 1946, Ho Chi Minh returned to Paris in a fruitless attempt to get the French to live up to a promise they had made of increased autonomy for his country.
While Ho was away, General Giap began consolidating communist control of the revolution.
He conducted a merciless purge of members of rival nationalist parties and people he called "reactionary saboteurs," landlords and moneylenders, Trotskyites and Catholics, men and women accused of collaborating with the French.
Hundreds were shot, drowned, buried alive.
I saw that Viet Minh killed their fellow Vietnamese.
They weren't actually fighting for the Vietnamese people.
They fought only for the international communist system.
On December 19th, 1946, after months of building tension, fighting broke out in Hanoi between the Viet Minh and the French.
The Viet Minh proved no match for French firepower.
Ho, Giap, and their comrades slipped out of the city and returned to their mountain stronghold far to the north.
Those who have rifles will use their rifles, Ho declared in a radio address calling for a nationwide guerrilla war.
Those who have swords will use swords, those who have no swords will use spades or sticks. There was a profound sense of responsibility to fight for our country.
I remember it as a happy, beautiful time.
We sang even as we marched into battle, very romantic songs.
But the country Ho Chi Minh hoped to unite was itself bitterly divided.
Families were being torn apart.
Despite her father's position in the French government, Duong Van Mai's sister felt compelled to answer Ho's call.
My older sister Thang was married to a man who had great sympathy for the Viet Minh.
And by that time Ho Chi Minh had evacuated his government to the mountain base.
So my sister and her husband trekked all the way from Hanoi toward the base in order to join the resistance against the French.
So the Vietnam War was really a civil war down to the family level.
France poured thousands of men into Vietnam, French regulars, European mercenaries, and colonial troops from Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Senegal, who fought alongside an army of Cambodians, Laotians, and anti-communist Vietnamese.
French forces managed to occupy most of the large towns and province capitals and established hundreds of isolated outposts.
The French also set out to try to win over rural Vietnamese through a program they called "pacification," pacification, building dikes, schools and roads, and vaccinating children.
The French would pacify a village and during the daytime they could control it.
But at night the Viet Minh would come back.
And so it was never completely secure.
My father would shake his head and say, you know, "Pacification is really futile because it's like trying to hold sand in your fingers." The Viet Minh mined roads, blew up bridges and railroads, ambushed French patrols, and then disappeared.
French soldiers sometimes took revenge on the nearest village, burning homes, raping women, executing men suspected of aiding the Viet Minh.
In 1948, in my home village, the French came on tanks and burned our houses.
They shot many of the water buffaloes that we used to plow.
When I was a little boy, I witnessed that scene.
It was seared into my memory.
But the communists proved every bit as ruthless as the French.
It is better to kill even those who might be innocent, one commander said, "than to let a guilty person go." And they specifically targeted anyone who had links to the French.
Once my father started working for the French, then he was a target, especially the higher he rose, the bigger target he became.
A Viet Minh agent actually came in with a pistol to shoot him, but at the last moment decided not to.
I saw the Viet Minh arrest Vietnamese soldiers in the French Army, strip them naked, and kill them savagely by burying them alive.
They didn't want to waste a bullet on these people.
We lived under the two oppressors.
French casualties continued to mount.
There are days when we are so discouraged that we would like to give it all up, a French soldier wrote his mother.
Convoys under attack, roads cut, firing in all directions every night, the indifference at home. While I was there, I had the opportunity to call my mother, you know.
And I was telling my mother what was happening over there, and I was telling her how she shouldn't believe what she sees in the newspaper and sees on television because we're losing the war.
I said, "And you'll probably never see me again because we're the most northern outpost that the Marines have, you know." We could literally look right into North Vietnam.
We could see the sparks when the guns fired on us.
And I said, "And everybody in my unit is dying.
I probably won't be coming back." And my mother said, "No, you're coming back." She said, "I talk to God every day and you're special.
You're coming back." And I said, "Ma, everybody's mother thinks that they're special.
You know, I'm putting pieces of special people in bags." President Truman's dramatic announcement that Russia had the atom secret caused state departments all over the world to stir uneasily.
We were very aware that there was a Cold War and that we had an enemy, and that enemy was the Soviet Union.
The United States stood at one pole and the Soviet Union stood at the other pole.
It was kind of a Manichean dynamic that there was evil and there was good.
And we were good, and the other side was evil.
It wasn't morally ambiguous.
Just a few weeks after Russia became a nuclear power, there was more stunning news.
Communist forces under Mao Zedong seized control of China.
Separate communist insurrections were also underway in the British colonies of Burma and Malaya.
In January 1950, Mao formally recognized Ho Chi Minh's insurgency and agreed to provide the arms, equipment, and military training he had been seeking.
The Soviets recognized the Viet Minh as well, and also offered help.
President Truman, who was being blamed by his political opponents for having lost China, and having failed to contain communism, approved a $23 million aid program for the French in Vietnam.
The United States was no longer neutral.
We were caught on the horns of a dilemma of how can we maintain our friendship and our alliance with the French and support them in Indochina while we, as a former colony ourselves, sympathized with the Vietnamese and their aspirations for freedom and independence? A highly trained and well-equipped North Korean Army swarmed across the 38th parallel to attack unprepared South Korean defenders.
In June of 1950, China's ally, communist North Korea, invaded South Korea.
President Truman ordered tens of thousands of American ground troops onto the Korean Peninsula.
The United States and its allies eventually pushed the invaders back north.
Meanwhile, in southern China, Mao's military was beginning to turn the Viet Minh into a modern fighting force, capable of inflicting a heavy toll on the French occupiers.
In July, the Truman administration quietly dispatched transport planes and a shipload of jeeps to Vietnam.
Thirty-five military advisors went along to oversee their use.
None of them, and no one in the American embassy, spoke a word of Vietnamese.
But the United States was now officially in Vietnam.
In October of 1950, hundreds of thousands of Chinese troops began pouring into North Korea, driving the allies back down the peninsula.
As that fighting raged, Truman continued to increase military aid for the French war in Vietnam.
If aggression is successful in Korea, we can expect it to spread throughout Asia and Europe and to this hemisphere.
We are fighting in Korea for our own national security and survival.
In the autumn of 1951, a young Massachusetts congressman named John F. Kennedy dined at the rooftop bar of the Hotel Majestic overlooking Saigon.
As he and his party ate, they could hear the thunder of guns across the Saigon River.
French commanders assured Kennedy that with more American support, French rule would be re-established.
But Kennedy spent two hours with Seymour Topping, a seasoned American reporter, who gave him a very different perspective.
The French were losing, he said, and many Vietnamese, who had once admired the Americans, were beginning to despise them for backing the French.
Kennedy believed the reporter.
Unless the United States could persuade the Vietnamese that it was as opposed to "injustice and inequality" as it was to communism, he told his constituents when he got home, the current effort would result in foredoomed failure.
In 1952, General Dwight Eisenhower was elected president, in part because he promised to take a tougher stance on communism.
That year, American taxpayers were footing more than 30% of the bill for the French war in Vietnam.
Within two years, that number would rise to nearly 80%.
And many of you ask this question.
Why is the United States spending hundreds of millions of dollars supporting the forces of the French Union in the fight against communism in Indochina? I think perhaps if we go over to the map here, I can indicate to you why it is so vitally important.
Here's Indochina.
If Indochina falls, Thailand is put in almost impossible position.
The same is true of Malaya with its rubber and tin.
Now may I say that as far as the war in Indochina is concerned, that I was there, right on the battlefield, or close to it, and it's a bloody war, and it's a bitter one.
By 1953, the French had been fighting for seven years.
They had suffered over 100,000 casualties and failed to pacify the countryside.
Six commanders had come and gone.
Nevertheless, the seventh commander, General Henri Navarre, assured his countrymen that victory was near.
Now we can see it clearly, he said, "like the light at the end of the tunnel." Meanwhile, large parts of the French population were horrified by reports of French brutality and the widespread use of napalm, gelatinized petroleum that burned foliage, homes, and human flesh.
When returning French troops disembarked at Marseilles, members of the longshoremen's union pelted them with rocks.
Parisian leftists began to call the conflict "La Sale Guerre," "The Dirty War." - - The camera was a close-up, was over the shoulder of this storm trooper who had a kid by the scruff of his shirt and he smacks him.
People screaming...
At that moment in time, I realized that anybody who really cared for America was sent halfway around the world chasing some ghost in a jungle.
In the meantime, my country's being torn apart.
So I saw somebody who looked like my dad hitting somebody who looked like me.
Whose side would I be on? In Korea, three years of combat end as United Nations and communist negotiators at Panmunjom sign a truce.
In July of 1953, the Korean War ended in a negotiated settlement and a still-divided peninsula.
American policymakers saw it as proof that communism in Asia could be contained.
And in Washington, a dramatic evening press conference...
That fall, the French indicated their willingness to begin talks to end the fighting in Vietnam.
Ho Chi Minh agreed to meet.
But before the negotiators were to convene in Geneva, each side sought to improve its position on the battlefield.
General Navarre set up a fortified base in a remote valley in northwestern Vietnam called Dien Bien Phu, where he hoped to lure the Viet Minh into a decisive battle.
Navarre was certain that superior French firepower and air support would crush any attack by the Viet Minh.
He and his commanders saw no need to worry about the jungle-covered hills that overlooked his 11,000 men, dug in on the valley floor.
The artillery commander was so confident of victory, he complained, "I have more guns than I need." General Giap saw his chance.
We decided to wipe out at all costs the whole enemy force at Dien Bien Phu, he remembered.
To do it, he pulled off one of the greatest logistical feats in military history, a feat that would be re-staged in propaganda films and celebrated for decades.
A quarter of a million civilian porters, nearly half of them women, moved everything he needed for a siege, from sacks of rice to disassembled artillery pieces, on foot through the jungle.
Giap surrounded the valley with 50,000 soldiers and 200 big guns, dug-in and camouflaged so well they could not be spotted from the air.
On March 13th, 1954, Viet Minh artillery on the hillsides began raining down 50 shells a minute on the French troops huddled below.
The airstrip was destroyed.
The besieged troops could only be reinforced and resupplied by airdrop.
The French artillery commander, who had underestimated his enemy, committed suicide.
The airlift to Dien Bien Phu continues.
Vital men and supplies for the heroic garrison that has defied the massed Viet Minh onslaughts for over six weeks.
Today, Dien Bien Phu is a human dam trying to stem the red tide that threatens to engulf Southeast Asia.
The French government begged President Eisenhower to intervene.
He refused to act without Congressional approval and support from European allies.
Britain said no and the Congress would not support unilateral action.
The communists under Ho Chi Minh are able to claim that they are fighting for independence and the French appear to be fighting for a maintenance of colonial rule.
I therefore believe that before the United States moves in, in any degree, that independence must be granted to the people, that the people must support the struggle.
I am convinced, Eisenhower confided to his diary, "that no military victory is possible in this theater." Still, without consulting Congress, the president had secretly sent more American transport planes, their markings painted over and flown by civilian contractors, to help resupply the desperate French troops at Dien Bien Phu.
Everyone understood that in and of itself, Vietnam didn't mean very much.
But they believed, I believed, if we lost it, that the rest of Asia would tumble to communism.
You have broader considerations that might follow what you would call the falling domino principle.
You have a row of dominoes set up, and you knock over the first one, and what will happen to the last one is the certainty that it will go over very quickly.
On the afternoon of May 7th, 1954, after 55 days of siege, the exhausted French forces at Dien Bien Phu surrendered.
They had lost 8,000 men, killed, wounded, or missing.
General Giap had lost three times as many, but he had won a great victory.
Half of our country was liberated by the victory at Dien Bien Phu.
We eliminated an entire French army corps.
The victory instilled in us the belief in our ability to win.
Even Duong Van Mai's parents could not help but be impressed.
They were very proud that the Viet Minh had defeated the French, this great Western power.
Admiration and respect on the one hand, but fear on the other hand.
And fear was the stronger emotion.
We have been caught bluffing by our enemies, Senate Minority Leader Lyndon Johnson said.
Today it is Indochina, tomorrow Asia may be in flames.        
And the day after, the Western Alliance will lie in ruins." We should have seen it as the end of the colonial era in Southeast Asia, which it really was.
But instead we saw it in Cold War terms, and we saw it as a defeat for the free world that was related to the rise of China.
And it was a total misreading of a pivotal event, which cost us very dearly.
The former home of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland, where East is meeting West in the international conference that may decisively affect the political future of Asia.
The day after the fall of Dien Bien Phu, diplomats from nine nations gathered in Geneva to settle the future of Vietnam.
The talks dragged on for nearly two-and-a-half months.
Despite their victory, Ho Chi Minh and General Giap could not keep fighting without more support from China and the Soviet Union.
But China had lost one million men in Korea and did not want to become involved in another war along its border.
The Soviet Union was hoping to ease tensions with the West.
Both of Ho Chi Minh's communist patrons urged him to agree to a negotiated settlement, a partition like the one that had ended the Korean War.
Ho had no option but to give in.
In the end, no one was satisfied.
Vietnam was temporarily to be divided at the 17th parallel.
The 130,000 French-led troops stationed in the North were to withdraw to the South, and somewhere between 50,000 and 90,000 Viet Minh were to re-group to the North.
The two halves would be separated by a demilitarized zone until an election could be held to reunify North and South Vietnam, an election everyone knew Ho Chi Minh would win.
The General Accords called for a general election in two years, which would reunify the country.
Everybody believed it.
Nobody thought that it would last more than 20 years.
I went to the North to train to liberate the South one day.
But I never could have believed the war would be so fierce.
The violence was unimaginable.
We had started walking up and we had probably gotten about a third of the way up the hill and then they unleashed on us.
We were in the middle of this horrible shit sandwich.
That's what we called it.
One of the things that I learned in the war is that we're not the top species on the planet because we're nice.
People talk a lot about how well the military turns, you know, kids into, you know, killing machines and stuff.
And I'll always argue that it's just finishing school.
Braving the dangers of the open sea in tiny, rickety craft, thousands of Roman Catholic and Buddhist faith have found life impossible under the communists.
For them, it's freedom or nothing.
Under the Geneva Accords, civilians living in either half of Vietnam who wanted to relocate to the other would have 300 days to do so.
My mother and father wanted to stay and meet my sister Thang again because they knew Thang would come back.
But on the other hand they couldn't risk that.
They were convinced that when Ho Chi Minh and his government arrived in Hanoi, my father would be the first one to be killed and all of us would be persecuted.
And I remember the day we left.
I looked around and I thought, "I never come back here again." It was extremely traumatic.
It was like the ground was suddenly cut from under you.
In the end, some 900,000 refugees, including more than half of all the Catholics living in the North, fled to the South, many of them aboard American ships.
The United States hoped somehow to encourage the building of a legitimate government in the South.
That government was now headed by Ngo Dinh Diem.
Both a Roman Catholic and a Confucian in a largely Buddhist country, he was a celibate bachelor who had once planned to be a priest.
The war for us really started when we became the partner, or I would say the victim, of President Diem.
We were going to help him turn South Vietnam into a democracy.
That's what he said he wanted to do. And we believed him.
Like Ho Chi Minh, Diem had spent years abroad seeking support for his own brand of Vietnamese nationalism.
He was a veteran politician whose loathing for the French was matched only by his hatred for the communists, who had imprisoned him and buried alive his eldest brother and his nephew.
Diem was aloof, autocratic, mistrustful of anyone much beyond his own family.
He also proved to be shrewd, resourceful, and skilled at exploiting the weaknesses of his opponents.
But he faced a daunting task in creating a new country.
The French, who still had thousands of troops stationed in the South, detested Diem.
Several provinces were under the sway of religious sects with armies of their own.
Tens of thousands of Viet Minh soldiers had gone north, but several thousand cadre, trained and dedicated Communist Party workers, had stayed behind to organize resistance in the countryside.
And Saigon itself was ruled by the Binh Xuyen, a crime syndicate backed by the French.
And the French were behind the Binh Xuyen, sort of supporting them because they didn't want Diem to succeed.
And that became the central contest.
Some in the CIA believed that Diem could be the savior of South Vietnam.
Others were not so sure.
He is a messiah without a message, one diplomat reported to Washington.
The US ambassador agreed.
On April 27th, 1955, President Eisenhower decided to end American support for Diem's regime.
But then Diem made an all-out assault on the Binh Xuyen syndicate.
Suddenly in the middle of the day we heard gunfire and then we saw flames and the neighborhood was burning.
There are hundreds of dead and wounded on both sides as the street fighting continues for an entire week.
For the United States, the situation presents a grave problem.
Diem finally regains control of Saigon.
In the end, Diem's forces prevailed.
Eisenhower now saw no option but to stick with Diem.
The French then announced their intention to withdraw completely from South Vietnam, ending nearly a century of occupation.
Diem became wildly popular because he seemed to embody the nationalist cause in the South.
He succeeded in getting the French out of Vietnam all the way.
And Ho Chi Minh had only got them out of the northern half.
Flush with victory, Diem called for a referendum in the South.
The CIA warned him not to meddle too much with the returns.
But when the ballots were counted, Diem claimed to have won 98.2% of the vote.
On October 26th, 1955, Ngo Dinh Diem named himself the first president of the brand-new Republic of Vietnam.
The election to reunify the North and South that had been promised at Geneva would never be held.
He became our ally, or rather our master, because the goal of preventing the communists from taking over the South was so strong that we couldn't afford for him to lose.
So Diem started to boss us around.
And this was a typical relationship.
You need any ally you believe to be the centerpiece of your foreign policy.
They understand that right away.
And the tail wags the dog.
From the Far East comes a distinguished visitor.
President Ngo Dinh Diem of Vietnam is accorded one of President Eisenhower's rare airport greetings, as he arrives for a four-day state visit.
President Diem, one of America's staunchest allies in Southeast Asia, will seek an increase in aid to shore up his country against increasing communist pressure, a request to which the President lends a sympathetic ear.
Most politicians, Democrats as well as Republicans, now seemed to share the changing views of Senator John F. Kennedy.
South Vietnam is "our offspring," he said.
We cannot abandon it. If it fell, the United States would be "held responsible and our prestige in Asia will sink to a new low." There had never before been a South Vietnamese nation, but Americans, who had rebuilt much of their own country during the New Deal and had helped rebuild Western Europe through the Marshall Plan, were convinced they could build one nonetheless.
Eisenhower ordered scores of American civilians to South Vietnam, full of plans for economic development meant to win, he hoped, the hearts and minds of the Vietnamese people.
But those civilians would always be outnumbered by military advisors, with orders to modernize, train, and equip Diem's forces, now called the Army of the Republic of Vietnam, the A.R.V.N.
Some A.R.V.N. officers found American methods unsuited to the guerrilla war they expected to wage against the communists.
Most American military advisors were veterans of the war in Korea, determined to prepare South Vietnamese forces to slow a conventional invasion from the North.
But no one in North Vietnam was planning a conventional invasion.
Ho Chi Minh was focused on rebuilding his country, devastated by more than a decade of war.
The communists imposed brutal land reforms modeled on those underway in China with a ruthlessness that left thousands of people dead, including not only landlords who had sided with the French, but also many villagers who had fought with the Viet Minh.
Ho Chi Minh was still determined to reunite Vietnam.
But he worried that if he took direct military action against the South, the United States would be drawn more deeply into the struggle.
He cautioned his comrades in the South to put their faith in political agitation and avoid violence.
But that message rang hollow among embattled Southern revolutionaries struggling to survive under Diem's increasingly harsh regime.
In a campaign he called "Denounce the Communists," Diem had imprisoned tens of thousands of citizens without trial and ordered the executions of hundreds more.
Now, the communists took matters into their own hands and began attacking South Vietnamese officials.
We didn't have guns then, so we used machetes to kill the tyrants.
During the uprising, we killed a security officer named Soc.
Twelve of us got together with machetes.
He ran out and fell into the rice paddy.
We hacked him to death.
Then, we told the people that anyone who attended Soc's funeral would be killed.
Nobody dared to go.
As violence in South Vietnam intensified, new leaders emerged in Hanoi.
Ho Chi Minh would remain the face of the revolution around the world, but he now began to share power with men who were growing impatient with his caution, men about whom Americans knew almost nothing.
The most important proved to be a carpenter's son from Quang Tri province in the South named Le Duan.
He had helped found the Indochinese Communist Party, survived nearly ten years in a French prison, and proved himself a shrewd political infighter as he rose to become First Secretary of the party.
I met Le Duan for the first time in 1951.
I was a young cadre.
I saw that he was very different from the other leaders.
He understood the will of the Southern people.
Le Duan carried their will to the North.
By 1959, Le Duan and his hardline allies were gaining influence within the North Vietnamese Politburo and beginning to change its policy.
They now argued that Hanoi should do everything within its power to help Southern revolutionaries remove Diem by force.
The North Vietnamese adopted a more aggressive posture.
They did not accept the division of the country, as such.
And they would try to have the country reunified again, at any cost.
Now, bands of 40 to 50 armed Viet Minh began slipping back home into South Vietnam, following jungle paths hacked through the Laotian mountains that the Americans would soon call the Ho Chi Minh Trail.
Violence against the Diem regime steadily accelerated.
On the evening of July 8th, 1959, at Bien Hoa, twenty miles northeast of Saigon, six American military advisors were watching a movie in their mess hall.
Viet Minh guerrillas, who had crept silently into the compound, opened fire through the windows.
Major Dale Buis from Pender, Nebraska, and Master Sergeant Chester Ovnand from Copperas Cove, Texas, were killed.
They were the first American soldiers to die from enemy fire in the Vietnam War.
We must prove all over again, to a watching world, as we sit on a most conspicuous stage, whether this nation, conceived as it is with its freedom of choice, its breadth of opportunity, its range of alternatives, can compete with the single-minded advance of the communist system.
On November 8th, 1960, John Fitzgerald Kennedy was elected president of the United States.
His vice president was Senator Lyndon Johnson.
They had narrowly beaten Vice President Richard Nixon and his running mate, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge.
During the campaign, both Kennedy and Nixon had pledged to hold the line against international communism wherever it seemed to be a threat.
But very few Americans knew or cared about what was going on in Vietnam.
Six weeks after Kennedy's election, at a remote jungle village called Tan Lap near the Cambodian border, representatives of southern revolutionary groups met to form a new organization to replace the Viet Minh, dedicated to overthrowing Ngo Dinh Diem and ousting the foreigners supporting him.
Behind the scenes, Le Duan and his communist comrades in Hanoi were orchestrating everything.
The new organization would be called the National Liberation Front, the N.L.F.
The armed wing of the N.L.F. was called the People's Liberation Armed Forces, but its enemies in Saigon and Washington preferred a more disparaging term.
In their eyes, the revolutionaries were Communist Traitors to the Vietnamese Nation, the Viet Cong.
Our leaders said, "We are willing to sacrifice to the last Vietnamese person." We exulted in those slogans.
The people couldn't fully understand that behind those heroic slogans was their own sacrifice.
History will judge whether the war was worth the sacrifice.
Let every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe, to assure the survival and the success of liberty.
For me, I'd always thought of courage as charging enemy bunkers or standing up under fire.
But just to walk, day after day from village to village and through the paddies and up into the mountains, just to get up in the morning and look out at the land and think, "In a few minutes I'll be walking out there and will my corpse be there, over there? Will I lose a leg out there?" Just to walk felt incredibly brave.
I was assigned a listening post at Con Thien in the fall.
That was like getting a death sentence at a trial.
Because that's just three Marines out there with a radio.
And that's the scariest thing I did.
You're listening for the enemy.
They call you on the radio every hour, "Delta, Lima, Papa, Three, Bravo, Delta, Lima, Papa, Three, Bravo, this is Delta Three.
If your Sit Rep is alpha sierra, key your handset twice." - -"If your situation report is all secure, break squelch twice on the handset." And if it's not, they keep thinking you're asleep so they keep asking you if your sit rep is alpha sierra.
And then it finally dawns on them.
Maybe there's somebody too close for you to say anything.
So then they say, "If your sit rep is negative alpha sierra, key your handset once," and you damn near squeeze the handle off the, you know, and two on the radio because they're so close that you can hear them whispering to one another.
And that's scary stuff.
That's real scary stuff.
And I'm scared of the dark, still.
I still got a night light.
When my kids were growing up, that's the first time they really found out that Daddy'd been in a war when they said, "Well, why do we need to outgrow our night lights? Daddy's still got one." Let the word go forth from this time and place, to friend and foe alike, that the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans born in this century, tempered by war, disciplined by a hard and bitter peace, proud of our...
I still believed, very much, in this concept of an heroic America, America being a really special country, the best country in the world, the best democracy, all the things that we believe about it, and I didn't really see anything wrong with that.
I was sure that we were right to be in Vietnam.
You know, because it started under Kennedy and, to me, JFK was God.
Anything that he thought was right, I thought was right.
At 43, John Fitzgerald Kennedy was the youngest man ever elected president of the United States.
He had promised bold new leadership, and to his supporters his inauguration seemed to signal a new day.
To those new states whom we welcome to the ranks of the free, we pledge our word that one form of colonial control shall not have passed away merely to be replaced by a far more iron tyranny.
We shall not always expect to find them supporting our view.
But we shall always hope to find them strongly supporting their own freedom and to remember that, in the past, those who foolishly sought power by riding the back of the tiger ended up inside.
The new president gathered around him an extraordinary set of advisors who shared his determination to confront communism, including Secretary of State Dean Rusk, National Security Advisor McGeorge Bundy, his deputy Walt Rostow, special military advisor General Maxwell Taylor, and Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, who had given up his post as president of the Ford Motor Company to serve his country.
He was a pioneer in the field of systems analysis.
Like the president who picked them, all of Kennedy's men had served during World War II.
Each had absorbed what they all believed was its central lesson, ambitious dictatorships needed to be halted in their tracks before they constituted a serious danger to the peace of the world.
Meanwhile, in South Vietnam, the National Liberation Front, labeled by its enemies the Viet Cong, was determined to overthrow the anticommunist and increasingly autocratic government of Ngo Dinh Diem.
In North Vietnam, unbeknownst to Washington, Ho Chi Minh, the father of Vietnamese independence, was now sharing power with a more aggressive leader, Le Duan, who was even more impatient to reunify his country.
After the French fled, the Americans jumped in.
For my parents' generation, you Americans were no different from the French.
The Americans were also invaders.
As their son, I inherited their ideas.
None of us knew anything about Vietnam.
Vietnam in those days was a piece on a chessboard, a strategic chessboard, not a place with a culture and a history that we would have an impossible time changing, even with the mighty force of the United States.
Over the next three years, the United States would struggle to understand the complicated country it had come to save, fail to appreciate the enemy's resolve, and misread how the South Vietnamese people really felt about their government.
The new president would find himself caught between the momentum of war and the desire for peace, between humility and hubris, between idealism and expediency, between the truth and a lie.
And so, my fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.
I grew up in Missouri, near Kansas City, a little community called Fairmount.
I was born in 1948.
And there were lots of kids being born in those days from the guys who were lucky enough to come home from World War II.
My dad was a pilot in the Army Air Corps.
And all of dad's friends were World War II vets or Korean vets.
And all of my male teachers were veterans.
And even my pastor had been a chaplain.
Well, they were my heroes, and I wanted to be like them.
For all of John Kennedy's soaring rhetoric, for all the talent he gathered around him, the first months of his presidency did not go well.
He approved a CIA-sponsored invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs that ended in disaster.
He felt he'd been bullied by Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev at a summit meeting in Vienna.
He was unable to keep the Soviets from building the Berlin Wall.
And in Southeast Asia, he refused to intervene against a communist insurrection in Laos.
Critics accused him of being immature, indecisive, inadequate to the task of combating what seemed to be a mounting communist threat.
There are just so many concessions that we can make in one year and survive politically, he confided to an aide in the spring of 1961.
In South Vietnam, Kennedy felt he had to act.
After the President received reports that the Viet Cong might be in control of more than half the densely populated Mekong delta, he dispatched General Maxwell Taylor and Walt Rostow to Vietnam.
They urged him to commit American ground troops.
Kennedy refused.
It would be like taking a first drink, he said, the effect would soon wear off and there would be demands for another and another and another.
Instead, in the midst of a cold war, with its constant risk of nuclear confrontation, the President supported a new "flexible" way to confront and contain communism, limited war.
This is another type of warfare, new in its intensity, ancient in its origin, war by guerrillas, subversives, insurgents, assassins, war by ambush instead of by combat, by infiltration instead of aggression.
To fight his "limited wars," Kennedy hoped to use the elite Green Berets, special forces trained in guerrilla warfare, counterinsurgency.
They were meant to be dispatched to hotspots around the world.
Khrushchev said, "We're not going to destroy you with nuclear weapons.
We're going to destroy you with wars of national liberation." Everybody talked about the fact that communism was spreading and it had to be stopped.
You went to Command and General Staff College and you were playing on maps with nuclear weapons and so forth.
And I escaped from that by getting into Special Forces.
So that instead of planning what we were going to do if World War III broke out, we were actually doing stuff.
And Vietnam was a place where we were going to draw the line.
Kennedy sent the Green Berets to the Central Highlands of Vietnam to organize mountain tribes to fight the Viet Cong and to undertake covert missions to sabotage their supply bases in Laos and Cambodia.
But Kennedy understood that counterinsurgency alone would never be enough, so he doubled funding for South Vietnam's army, dispatched helicopters and APCs, armored personnel carriers.
Kennedy also authorized the use of napalm and the spraying of defoliants to deny cover to the Viet Cong and destroy the crops that fed them.
A whole array of chemicals was used, including one named for the color of the stripes on the 55-gallon drums in which it came.
Agent Orange. And the President quietly continued to increase the number of American military advisors.
Within two years, the number he had inherited would grow to 11,300, empowered not only to teach the Army of the Republic of Vietnam, the ARVN, to fight a conventional war, but to accompany them into battle, a violation of the agreement that had divided Vietnam back in 1954.
The administration did its best to hide from the American people the scale of the buildup that was taking place on the other side of the world, fearful that the public would not support the more active role advisors had begun to play in combat.
Mr. President, a Republican National Committee publication has said that you are, have been, less than candid with the American people as to how deeply we are involved in Vietnam.
Could you throw any more light on that? We have increased our assistance to the government, its logistics.
We have not sent combat troops there.
Though the training missions that we have there have been instructed if they are fired upon to, uh...
They, uh, would, of course, fire back to protect themselves.
But we have not sent combat troops in the generally understood sense of the word.
So that I, I feel that, uh, we are, uh, being as frank as the, uh...
As we can be.
I think we... What I have said to you is a description of our activity there.
I was a child of the Cold War.
When I got off the plane in Saigon on a humid evening in April 1962, I really believed in all the ideology of the Cold War.
That if we lost South Vietnam, that the rest of Southeast Asia would fall to the communists.
There was an international communist conspiracy.
We believed fervently in this stuff.
Neil Sheehan was a 25-year-old reporter for United Press International, UPI.
He had served three years in the Army in Korea and Japan before deciding to become a newspaperman.
Vietnam was his first full-time overseas assignment, and his only worry, he remembered, was that he would get there too late and miss out on the big story.
Sheehan and other reporters rode along as the ARVN mounted a series of helicopter assaults on enemy strongholds in the Mekong delta and elsewhere and brought terror to the Viet Cong.
American pilots were at the controls.
It was a crusade and it was thrilling.
And you'd climb aboard the helicopters with the Vietnamese soldiers who were being taken out to battle.
And they'd take off, and they'd contour-fly. They'd skim across the rice paddies at about three or four feet above the paddies, and then pop up over the tree lines that lined the fields.
It was thrilling. I mean, it was absolutely thrilling.
And you believed in what was happening.
I mean, you had the sense that we're fighting here and some day we'll win, and this country will be a better, for our coming.
The new M-113 armored personnel carriers were capable of churning across rivers and rice paddies and right through the earthen dikes that separated one field from the next.
The Viet Cong had nothing with which to stop them.
We were just overwhelming them with force, with firepower.
And the firefights would be over in a pretty short time.
We have some people running along the dikes.
Actually, the, uh, canal is perpendicular to the one you're attacking now.
They have on black uniforms, and I estimate approximately 3-0.
Do you have them in sight? Over.
That's what was causing us to win, see.
And we were winning one after the other.
And we were not meeting a heck of a lot of resistance.
Captain James Scanlon had been stationed in West Germany and had seen for himself the brutality with which the communist East Germans dealt with anyone who dared try to escape to the West.
He was now in the Mekong delta, an advisor to the 7th Division of the ARVN, and had begun to see evidence of Viet Cong brutality as well.
Those of us who talked to the people who fled East Germany, we saw the need to stop the growth of communism, to stop the dominoes from being tumbled.
That was a worthy cause.
As the ARVN and their advisors pursued the Viet Cong, the government of Ngo Dinh Diem had launched an ambitious program meant to gain control of the countryside by concentrating the rural population into thousands of fortified settlements, ringed with barbed wire, and moats, and bamboo spikes meant to keep out the Viet Cong.
They were called strategic hamlets, part of the effort to win the hearts and minds and loyalty of the Vietnamese people.
The French had tried something like it a decade before.
They had called it pacification.
President Diem's strategic hamlet program is making substantial progress.
About 1,600 of the some 14,000 hamlets have been fortified to date.
By the summer of 1962, news from South Vietnam seemed so promising that Defense Secretary Robert McNamara made sure the Pentagon was prepared to implement a plan for a gradual withdrawal of American advisors to be completed by 1965.
So far as most Americans knew, the United States was achieving its goal.
A stable, independent, anticommunist state in South Vietnam.
It was "a struggle this country cannot shirk," the New York Times said, and the United States seemed to be winning it.
But that same summer, Ho Chi Minh traveled to Beijing in search of more help from the Chinese.
The American buildup in South Vietnam had alarmed him and the other leaders in Hanoi.
Ho told the Chinese that American attacks on North Vietnam itself now seemed only a matter of time.
The Chinese promised to equip and arm tens of thousands of Vietnamese soldiers.
Meanwhile, the Politburo in Hanoi had directed that every able-bodied North Vietnamese man be required to serve in the armed forces.
Inspired by their president's call, thousands of young Americans would join the Peace Corps and other organizations to help project American ideals and goodwill around the world.
We were not only there in Vietnam to stop communism, but there had to be something positive.
We're trying to find out what the Vietnamese people want and to help them get it.
And that was very simple but, if you think about it, also very complex.
But it went to the heart, I thought, of what we were trying to do.
Pete Hunting, a 22-year-old from Oklahoma City, would go to Vietnam right after college to do what he could to help poor villagers in the countryside.
Dear Margo, I finally finished up my work in Phan Rang last week.
Had spent a month working on a windmill I'd promised the people of one hamlet.
Cost a lot of money, too, which I paid out of my own pocket.
I'm in soaring spirits today despite all the natural disasters, political intrigues, and subversive activities.
Pete Hunting worked for the International Voluntary Services, a nonprofit organization committed to improving agriculture, education, and public health.
He was one of hundreds of dedicated aid workers in South Vietnam.
Latest news on this side of the world is that I'll almost definitely be extending over here for another two years, providing the country stays in one piece that long.
Two years after he arrived, Pete Hunting was driving in the Mekong delta when he ran into a Viet Cong ambush.
-He was shot five times in the head. - The first American civilian volunteer to be killed in Vietnam.
People used to joke in Vietnam about winning the hearts and minds.
And you hear that expression, but that should not be a joke.
It's a serious, serious problem.
If you pull off a military operation, and it may be successful on the military basis, but you destroy a village, then you've created a village of resistance.
Few advisors understood the unique challenges of fighting an insurgency in Vietnam better than Lieutenant Colonel John Paul Vann.
A career soldier from Virginia, he was the senior American advisor to the 7th ARVN Division in the Mekong delta.
Small, wiry, and abrasive, John Paul Vann was convinced he knew how to defeat the Viet Cong.
John Paul Vann was simply the most remarkable soldier I ever met. Period.
The biggest challenge of John Paul Vann's life was somehow saving Vietnam, winning.
That, to him, was the ultimate challenge.
When it became clear to Vann that the tactics the Americans had taught the ARVN were beginning to make more enemies than friends, he sought out newspapermen to spread the word.
He was able to explain to us what was going on.
The important thing was not to alienate the population.
That if you got sniper fire from a hamlet, you send in riflemen to take out the sniper.
You didn't shell the place, because you were going to kill women and kids and destroy houses and you were going to turn the population against you.
Most press coverage of Vietnam was upbeat in the tradition of previous wars.
But a handful of young reporters, including Neil Sheehan, David Halberstam of the New York Times, and Malcolm Browne of the Associated Press, who spent time in the field with officers like Vann, were beginning to see that from the Vietnamese countryside, things looked very different than they did from the press offices in Washington or Saigon.
So it was terribly important that we not only win the war but that we as reporters report the truth that would help to win the war.
We were very fervent in wanting to report the truth because it was very important to the welfare of our country and to the welfare of the world.
Sheehan and his colleagues began asking tough questions about what constituted progress, what victory would look like, and if the people in the countryside, where 80% of South Vietnam's population lived, could ever trust the government in Saigon.
I remember going, during one of Robert McNamara's visits, out to one of these hamlets.
The Vietnamese general who commanded the area was telling McNamara what a wonderful thing this was.
And some of these farmers were down digging a ditch around the hamlet.
And I looked at their faces, and they were really angry.
I mean, it was very obvious to me that if these people could, they'd cut our throats.
Farmers resented being forced to abandon their homes and move to strategic hamlets.
Corrupt officials siphoned off funds.
And villagers blamed the Diem regime for failing to protect them from guerrilla attacks.
As the people's anger grew, so did the ranks of the Viet Cong.
It turned out that the Viet Cong were recruiting men right out of those strategic, so-called strategic hamlets.
And then the whole program fell apart.
Saigon called it "draining the water to catch the fish." They thought the revolutionary forces were the fish and the people were the water, and if they got the water out, they could catch the fish.
But they couldn't succeed.
Nguyen Ngoc's father was a postal clerk south of Da Nang.
His brothers and sisters taught in South Vietnamese schools.
But he joined the revolution, and as a political officer, wrote poems, songs, and slogans to inspire the people in the countryside to support the Viet Cong.
The Viet Cong cadre would come in and talk to them and their message is usually...  Which means, "Turn your grief into action.
Do something about it. Join us.
We'll fight together.
We'll liberate the country from this corrupt, unjust government.
We'll throw out the foreigners.
We'll reunify the country.
And, uh, we'll bring in this great regime that will take care of you and bring economic and social justice." The Viet Cong ran rival local governments, complete with their own tax collectors and school teachers, spies and propagandists, and province chiefs.
To make matters worse, ARVN troops and American advisors now found themselves confronted by a new threat.
battalions of well-armed Viet Cong soldiers, as well as by local guerrillas.
We'd armed them.
You could hear the arming of the Viet Cong.
Back in early '62, they only had one machine gun per battalion.
It was sporadic fire.
Then, as they captured more and more of these American arms, when you made contact, it would build up into a drumfire of automatic and semi-automatic weapons.
Secretary McNamara decided that he would draw up some kind of a chart to determine whether we were winning or not.
And he was putting things in like numbers of weapons recovered, numbers of Viet Cong killed.
Uh, very statistical.
And he asked Edward Lansdale, who was then in the Pentagon as head of Special Operations, to come down and look at this.
And so Lansdale did and he said, "There's something missing." And McNamara said, "What?" And Lansdale said, "The feelings of the Vietnamese people." You couldn't reduce this to a statistic.
Robert McNamara had vowed to make America's military "cost-effective." He demanded that everything be quantified.
In Saigon, General Paul D. Harkins, head of the Military Assistance Command, Vietnam, known as MACV, dutifully complied.
He and his staff generated mountains of daily, weekly, monthly, and quarterly data on more than 100 separate indicators, far more data than could ever be adequately analyzed.
General Harkins had little use for skeptical reporters like Neil Sheehan.
Bad news was to be buried.
Harkins ignored the alarming after-action reports John Paul Vann and other officers were sending in from the field.
I was going to be made head of the Vietnam desk at CIA headquarters.
And the first person of importance that I met was General Harkins.
And he started out by saying, "Mr. Gregg, I don't care what you hear from anybody else, I can tell you without a doubt we're going to be out of here with a military victory in six months." The country's 12 million peasants can scarcely remember what peace was like.
They're caught between the predatory guerrillas and the almost equally demanding soldiery.
Their lives are lived in a state of permanent uncertainty, punctuated by bouts of violence as government forces come to grips with the black-clad communist rebel forces called the Viet Cong.
All of South Vietnam was a battlefield.
If the Americans required that a democracy be built on those ruins, that was unrealistic.
Clearly, South Vietnam was more democratic, but in such a violent struggle, the side whose soldiers had fewer doubts, and asked fewer questions, would win.
Ho Chi Minh was very good at working among the people.
He knew that Vietnamese respect the elderly.
So he grew a beard to look older, a long beard like this.
He referred to himself as Uncle with everyone.
And he purposefully created a very humble image.
He always used simple language.
He was very shrewd at communicating with the people.
Ho Chi Minh called on the people to defend the fatherland.
He told us, "The war could last for 10 years, 20 years, or even longer.
But the Vietnamese people will not be intimidated.
Nothing is more precious than independence and freedom." On our side, we were not as committed and we were, um...
Our leaders were corrupt and incompetent.
And so, deep down we'll always have this fear, this suspicion that, in the end, it'll be the communists who won.
When John Kennedy assembled what he thinks is the best and the brightest, twenty years before that in a cave in the northern part of Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh also put together his best and the brightest.
And these guys are at it for a while.
And when we show up, they were far along to consolidating their victory over this inevitable conflict between Ho Chi Minh and John F. Kennedy's vision.
The more you think about the American strategy, the more you know that it was never going to work out particularly well.
I was at my top of my game when I was in combat.
You don't have the luxury to indulge your fear because other people's lives depend upon you keeping your head cold.
You know, when something goes wrong, they call it emotional numbing.
It's not very good in civilian life, but it's pretty useful in combat.
To be able to get absolutely very cold about what needs to be done and to stick with it.
To me it's, it's a little bit distressing to realize that I was at my best doing something as terrible as war.
President Kennedy has staked his reputation in Asia on saving South Vietnam from communism.
As the army makes the sweep towards the village suspected of harboring Viet Cong, it can't tell whether it will meet resistance.
The troops round up all the young men they can find, since they can't tell who is a communist just by looking.
Those who try to run for it are shot on the assumption they have something to hide.
You see, for the Americans who come to Vietnam to fight the war, they look at everyone in the city as the friendly people.
But they look at the people in the village as a Viet Cong because the Viet Cong have no uniforms.
How could they win? If they killed one real enemy, they might get only one replacement.
If they killed the wrong man, they get ten enemy.
And mostly they killed the wrong man.
Each of South Vietnam's 44 provinces had its own chief.
Some were simply political appointees, corrupt allies of President Diem.
Tran Ngoc Chau, province chief of Kien Hoa, was different.
A privileged judge's son from the old imperial city of Hue, he and two of his brothers had fought against the French with the Viet Minh.
But he had refused to join the Communist Party.
He admired their dedication, but disliked the way they punished those who dared differ with them.
Instead, he left the Viet Minh, became a major in the army fighting against them, and eventually so impressed Diem with his insider's knowledge of communist tactics that he was promoted to colonel and made chief of Kien Hoa, a Viet Cong stronghold.
He was absolutely incorruptible.
And people came to really understand that here's a guy who's, even though it's not an elected system, nevertheless really represents us.
Give me a budget that equals the cost of one American helicopter, Chau liked to say, "and I'll give you a pacified province.
With that much money, I can raise the standard of living of the rice farmers, and government officials can be paid enough so they won't think it necessary to steal. Rather than hunt down the Viet Cong, he sought to persuade them.
And I don't want to kill. I want to convert them.
When I locate a real Viet Cong family, I try to win over the family and through them to win over the guy who left the family.
And only after you fail, after you fail those steps, then you kill him.
And after I leave the program, not only the C.I.A., the Vietnamese as well, they are more interested in the last part.
That is the real problem.
Back home, Americans were paying little attention to what was happening in Vietnam.
They were watching The Beverly Hillbillies and Gunsmoke on TV, were interested in whether the Yankees would win the World Series again and in the recent death of Marilyn Monroe.
But some Americans had been growing impatient with the slow pace of social change.
We were told in the '50s that we lived in the best country in the world.
In the middle of, you know, trying to figure out what it meant to be a citizen of this best country in the world, suddenly the civil rights movement exploded into our consciousness.
We didn't think we had any power.
We didn't think we could be actors in history, that we could affect things.
And suddenly, you know, these young black students in the South were doing exactly that.
And it just blew the tops of our heads off.
Other Americans were concerned about the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world.
Perhaps it would be a good thing to put Khrushchev and Kennedy on an island and not let either one of them off until they came to an agreement.
And if you were in a cafe when Diem was giving a speech, somebody would get up and shut the radio off.
It would be coming in over the radio.
Somebody would get up and they'd just shut the radio off.
I mean, he was not connected to his own population.
Diem was simply the opposite of what democracy was.
South Vietnam in the competition against the North, that should been, should have been a golden opportunity to have that society open with the free press, free expression.
But there was not much choice if the two systems are structurally dictator and oppressive systems.
One under the Communist Party, one under a family.
I see him. I know him.
He didn't lead the government.
The one who had the control over the government is his brother, brother Nhu.
Diem's brother, Ngo Dinh Nhu, had been the architect of the strategic hamlet program, ran a personal political party that mirrored the techniques and the ruthlessness of the communists, and supervised a host of internal security units that spied on and seized enemies of the regime.
Some reporters who probed too deeply into what Diem and Nhu were doing were ordered out of the country.
- - When an American journalist objected, Nhu's sharp-tongued wife told him, "Vietnam had no use for your crazy freedoms." Meanwhile, out in the countryside, John Paul Vann and other advisors had begun to notice that the corruption within Diem's regime had filtered down to the commanders in the field.
Troops who had once been willing to engage the enemy now seemed strangely reluctant.
God, I was told so many times...  You know, "Scanlon..."  Um...
Very dangerous, you know, going out there.
John Vann would go out with them at night.
And he noticed that somebody would always cough or make some other slight noise when it turned out that the Viet Cong were heading into the ambush site.
They did not want to get in a fight.
South Vietnamese officers were chosen less for their combat skill than for their loyalty to President Diem, and their men knew it.
What we should've done is either forced the Vietnamese, I mean, really forced them to clean up their act.
And if they wouldn't clean up their act to say, "We're out of here.
Because we don't bet on losing horses.
This is a losing horse.
You are not going to win this insurgency." We, as Americans, should have understood the desire the Vietnamese people to have their own country.
I mean, we did the same thing to the Brits.
In October of 1962, the United States and the Soviet Union came closer than they would ever come again to mutually assured destruction.
Good evening, my fellow citizens.
This government, as promised, has maintained the closest surveillance of the Soviet military buildup on the island of Cuba.
Within the past week, unmistakable evidence has established the fact that a series of offensive missile sites is now in preparation on that imprisoned island.
The Soviets had secretly placed nuclear missiles ninety miles from the United States.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff urged President Kennedy to bomb Cuba.
He resisted and instead ordered a naval blockade to stop Soviet ships from resupplying the island.
For 13 excruciating days, the world held its breath.
Finally, in exchange for a private pledge to remove American missiles from Turkey, Khrushchev agreed to remove his missiles from Cuba.
Neither the United States nor the Soviet Union wanted so direct a confrontation ever again.
From now on, limited wars, like the growing conflict in Vietnam, would assume still greater importance.
I'd grown up in the shadow of the mushroom cloud.
And I remember watching President Kennedy speak during the Cuban Missile Crisis and wondering if I was ever gonna kiss a girl.
And so this was just continuing that battle against the Russians.
Only we were fighting, you know, their proxies, the Vietnamese there, but it was monolithic communism.
It didn't matter to me where it was, I was going to go if my government said we needed to be there.
We were probably the last kids of any generation that actually believed our government would never lie to us.
We had been writing stories about all the flaws on the Saigon side, about how they wouldn't fight, about the corruption, they wouldn't obey orders, the disorganization.
And then all of a sudden, the Viet Cong, for the first time, the "raggedy-ass little bastards" as the Harkins's people in Saigon called them, stood and fought.
And suddenly, all the flaws on the Saigon side were illuminated by this.
Like a star shell, it illuminated the battlefield.
Everything came out.
A few days after Christmas 1962, the 7th ARVN Division got orders to capture a Viet Cong radio transmitter broadcasting from a spot some 40 miles southwest of Saigon in a village called Tan Thoi.
The village was surrounded by rice paddies.
An irrigation dike linked it to a neighboring hamlet, Ap Bac.
Intelligence suggested no more than 120 guerrillas were guarding the transmitter.
John Paul Vann helped draw up what seemed to be a foolproof plan of attack.
Supported by helicopters and armored personnel carriers, some 1,200 South Vietnamese troops would attack the village from three sides.
When the surviving Viet Cong tried to flee through the gap left open for them, as they always had whenever outnumbered and confronted by modern weapons, artillery and airstrikes would destroy them.
Vann would observe the fighting from a spotter plane.
But the intelligence underlying it all turned out to be wrong.
There were more than 340 Viet Cong, not 120, in the area.
Communist spies had tipped them off that they were soon to be attacked.
And this time, they would not flee without a fight.
Among them was Le Quan Cong, who had been a guerrilla fighter since 1951, when he was 12.
We prepared trenches and bunkers where we could hide.
We could see clearly in front of us.
When we opened fire, we would be able to kill the enemy troops because they had to advance across an open field.
At 6:35 in the morning on January 2, 1963, ten American helicopters ferried an ARVN company to a spot just north of Tan Thoi.
They met no resistance.
Meanwhile, two South Vietnamese Civil Guard battalions approached Ap Bac from the South on foot.
The Viet Cong commander let the Civil Guards get within 100 feet before giving the order to fire.
Several South Vietnamese soldiers were killed.
Survivors hid behind a dike.
Ten more helicopters, filled with troops and escorted by five helicopter gunships, -roared in to help. - Our goal was to shoot down five to ten choppers.
As soon as they landed, we opened up with mortars and machine guns.
Viet Cong machine guns hit 14 of the 15 aircraft.
Five would be destroyed, killing and wounding American crewmen.
From that moment on, we were no longer scared by the enemy.
Even those who weren't very brave were no longer afraid.
The enemy concentrated their fire on the ARVN struggling to get out of the downed helicopters.
It was like shooting ducks for the Viet Cong, an American crewman remembered.
Colonel Vann circled helplessly overhead.
He radioed the ARVN commander, urging him to send an APC unit to rescue the men.
I got the word from John Vann that American helicopters were down.
They were right in front of the Viet Cong positions.
We had Americans killed and wounded and we had to get over there right away.
Like Vann, Captain Scanlon was only an advisor.
Captain Ly Tong Ba, his ARVN counterpart, would have to give the order to advance.
Scanlon liked and admired him.
I turned to Ba and said, "Hey, you know, you got to get over there right away." And Ba said to me, "I'm not going." Ba's superiors within the ARVN, far from the battlefield, had told him to stay put.
And John Vann, my boss, was screaming at me over the radio to get them over there.
It took Scanlon an hour to convince Captain Ba to move.
Another two hours were lost before the APCs could make their way through the paddies toward the trapped men.
The firing had died down.
Everything was quiet.
You could see the open expanse of rice fields.
And my reaction was, hey, it was all over.
The first two APCs dropped their ramps.
Infantry squads stepped out, prepared to spray the tree line with automatic fire as they advanced.
In the past, that had been enough to make the Viet Cong scurry away.
This time was different.
Eight of the APCs came under attack.
Within minutes, six of their gunners had been killed, shot through the head.
And boy, we got raked.
So it was like a pool table.
We were on the green and they were in the pockets shooting at us.
When Captain Ba managed to convince a few more APCs to advance, guerrillas leaped from their foxholes and hurled hand grenades at them.
None did any real damage, but the drivers were so demoralized that they halted, turned around, and withdrew behind the wrecked helicopters.
From his spotter plane, Vann begged the ARVN to make a simultaneous assault on the enemy by all the remaining ground forces.
ARVN commanders refused.
That night, the Viet Cong melted away, carrying most of their dead and wounded with them.
At least 80 South Vietnamese soldiers had been killed.
So had three American advisors, including Captain Ken Good, a friend of Scanlon's.
We stacked the armored personnel carriers with bodies, stacked them up on top till we couldn't stack anymore.
And, um, I wouldn't let the Vietnamese touch the Americans.
So I carried Americans out.
And, um... And I was... I was exhausted.
They, uh, told me about, uh, Ken Good getting killed.
And Ken and I had worked so hard with our two battalions.
And, uh, to hear that, uh, he got killed, hurt...
Great guy.
Reporters arrived from Saigon before all of the ARVN dead could be removed.
They were horrified at what they saw and tried to find out what had really happened.
John Paul Vann took Neil Sheehan and David Halberstam aside and told them.
The Battle of Ap Bac had been "a miserable goddamn performance." "The ARVN won't listen," he said.
They make the same mistakes over and over again in the same way. But back in Saigon, General Harkins immediately declared victory.
The ARVN forces had an objective, he said.
We took that objective.         
The VC left and their casualties were greater than those of the government forces.
What more do you want?" When Halberstam and Sheehan reported that Ap Bac had in fact been a defeat, the U.S. Commander in the Pacific denied it all and urged the reporters to "get on the team." Ap Bac was terribly important.
They had shot down five helicopters, which they previously had been terrified of.
They'd stopped the armored personnel carriers.
They demonstrated to their own people that you could resist the Americans and win.
The movement was greatly energized.
In the toughest battles, our soldiers were inspired by Ap Bac.
They were yelling and fired up.
They forgot their fear of the enemy.
In Hanoi, the Battle of Ap Bac was seen by Party First Secretary Le Duan and his Politburo allies as evidence of the inherent weakness of the South Vietnamese regime.
Even when faced with American advisors and weaponry, the Viet Cong had learned how to inflict heavy casualties on Saigon's forces, and get away again.
In Saigon, President Diem claimed the ARVN were winning, not losing.
Ap Bac had only been a momentary setback.
And he resented Americans telling him how to fight his battles or run his country.
The President's sister-in-law, Madame Nhu, went further.
She denounced the Americans as "false brothers." "We don't have a prayer of staying in Vietnam," President Kennedy privately told a friend that spring.
These people hate us.         
But I can't give up a piece of territory like that to the communists and then get the people to reelect me." Buddhist monks and nuns are joined by thousands of sympathizers to protest the government's restrictions on the practice of their religion in South Vietnam.
Diem began by alienating the rural population.
And that started the Viet Cong.
And now he was alienating the urban population.
Seventy percent of the population is Buddhist and the demonstrators clashed with the police during the week-long series of incidents like this.
In the months that followed the Battle of Ap Bac, South Vietnam plunged into civil strife that had little to do with the Viet Cong.
Religion and nationalism were at its heart.
A Catholic minority had for years dominated the government of an overwhelmingly Buddhist country.
That spring in the city of Hue, Christian flags had been flown to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the ordination of Diem's older brother as a Catholic bishop.
But when the Buddhists of the city flew their flags to celebrate the 2,527th birthday of Lord Buddha, police tore them down.
Protesters took to the streets.
The Catholic deputy province chief sent security forces to suppress the demonstration.
The soldiers opened fire.
Eight protesters died.
The youngest was 12. The oldest was 20.
The Diem regime blamed the Viet Cong.
Monks throughout the country demanded an apology.
They also called for an end to discrimination by Catholic officials.
Many Buddhists had come to see Diem's policies as a direct threat to their religious beliefs.
My family was against what Diem was doing.
My mother was convinced that Diem was destroying the Buddhist faith.
She would go to the pagodas and listen to the monks' speeches.
And she was just extremely upset.
She was not alone. There was a lot of people like her.
American officials urged Diem and his brother Nhu to make meaningful concessions to the Buddhists, for the sake of maintaining unity in the struggle against communism.
They refused.
On June 10, 1963, Malcolm Browne of the Associated Press received an anonymous tip.
Something important was going to happen the next day at a major intersection in Saigon.
He took his camera.
To protest the Diem regime's repression, a 73-year-old monk named Quang Duc set himself on fire.
As a large, hushed crowd watched him burn to death, another monk repeated over and over again in English and Vietnamese, "A Buddhist monk becomes a martyr.
A Buddhist monk becomes a martyr." I remember they held the ashes of the monk who burned himself to death where it was kept in one of the main pagodas.
And lines of people came to pass by, and I saw these women, not rich women, ordinary Vietnamese women, take off the one piece of gold they had on, their wedding ring, and drop it in the bottle to contribute to the struggle.
And I thought to myself, "This regime is over. It's the end." Soon, other monks would become martyrs.
Fresh outbursts by Madame Nhu only made things worse.
Burning monks made her clap her hands, she said.
If more monks wanted to burn themselves, she would provide the matches.
The only thing they have done, they have barbecued one of their monks, whom they have intoxicated, whom they have abused the confidence.
And even that barbecuing was done, um, not even with self-sufficient means because they, they used imported gasoline.
They thought she was arrogant, she was power hungry.
They suspected her and her husband of being corrupt.
Nhu ran the secret police, which arrested and tortured people.
People feared the Diem regime.
Perhaps more than they feared it, they really hated it.
Students, including many Catholics, rallied to the Buddhist cause.
So did some army officers.
People among the military had to ask the question, "Can we continue this kind of situation like that when the whole country, country was almost burning with the kind of protest from the Buddhists?" You see? I first became aware of Vietnam because of a burning monk.
We had watched the civil rights movement in the South and it had set the standard for us to stand up against injustice, allow yourself to be beaten up, allow yourself to be attacked by a dog or hit by a police truncheon.
And we had enormous respect for people who were willing to go that far.
And then one day in 1963, we saw on television a picture of a monk in Saigon.
This was an extraordinary act.
Why was a Buddhist monk burning himself on the streets of Saigon? The protests continued.
Tensions between Washington and Saigon steadily worsened.
The more the Kennedy Administration demanded change, the more Diem and his brother Nhu seemed to resist.
The White House announced that a new American ambassador, former senator Henry Cabot Lodge, was being sent to Saigon, a man eminent enough, the president hoped, to make Diem listen more closely to American advice.
Diem professed to be unimpressed.
They can send ten Lodges, he said, "but I will not let myself or my country be humiliated, not if they train their artillery on this palace." He did promise the outgoing ambassador, Frederick Nolting, that he would take no further repressive steps against the Buddhists.
Then, a few minutes after midnight on August 21, 1963, with Nolting gone and Henry Cabot Lodge's arrival still one day away, Diem cut the phone lines of all the senior American officials in Saigon and sent hundreds of his Special Forces storming into Buddhist pagodas in Saigon, Hue, and several other South Vietnamese cities.
Some 1,400 monks and nuns, students and ordinary citizens were rounded up and taken away.
Martial law was imposed, public meetings were forbidden, troops were authorized to shoot anyone found on the streets after nine o'clock.
Tanks guard a pagoda in Saigon during South Vietnam's bafflingly complicated crisis that has the government of President Ngo Dinh Diem, students, and Buddhists, and the United States government all trying to guess one another's next move.
When college students protested in support of the monks, Diem closed Vietnam's universities.
High school students then poured into the streets.
He shut down all the high schools and the grammar schools, too, and arrested thousands of school children, including the sons and daughters of officials in his own government.
I participated in the demonstrations.
I strongly believed that that government has to be overthrown because it's a dictator government.
We couldn't stand it anymore and this is an opportunity to rise against it.
Phan Quang Tue was a law student that summer.
His father was a prominent nationalist whom Diem had jailed for calling for greater democracy.
I was and I'm still a Catholic, not a very good Catholic.
I don't practice religiously.
But I'm a Catholic.
I was rightly arrested because I did participate in demonstration.
And I was, uh, interrogated and briefly tortured, beaten a little bit.
Henry Cabot Lodge took over as U.S. ambassador in the midst of the turmoil.
And he has reported to have demanded that President Diem's brother Nhu be ousted or U.S. aid to Vietnam will be cut.
In the wake of the pagoda raids, a small group of South Vietnamese generals contacted the CIA in Saigon.
Diem's brother Nhu was now largely in control of the government, they said.
What would Washington's reaction be if they mounted a coup? President Kennedy and his senior advisors happened to be out of town, so Roger Hilsman, Jr., assistant secretary of state for Far Eastern affairs and a critic of the Diem regime, took it upon himself to draft a cable with new instructions for Ambassador Lodge.
The U.S. government could no longer tolerate a situation in which power lay in Nhu's hands, it said.
Diem should be given a chance to rid himself of his brother.
If he refused, Lodge was to tell the generals, "then we must face the possibility that Diem himself cannot be preserved." The president was vacationing at Hyannis Port, Massachusetts.
Undersecretary of State George Ball read part of the cable to him over the phone.
Since the early 1950s, the United States government had encouraged and even orchestrated other Cold War coups in Iran, Guatemala, the Congo, and elsewhere.
Kennedy decided to approve Hilsman's cable in part because he thought his top advisors had already endorsed it.
They had not.
And somehow, because of a cable that came out from Washington, Lodge decided that the only solution was to get rid of not just Ngo Dinh Nhu, the bad brother, but also of Diem himself.
And that started us on this whole business of promoting a coup.
And it was not a good idea.
I just had a feeling of impending disaster.
On September 2, 1963, Labor Day, Walter Cronkite of CBS News interviewed President Kennedy.
The president used the opportunity to deliver a message to President Diem.
Mr. President, the only hot war we've got running at the moment is of course the one in Vietnam, and we've got our difficulties there, quite obviously.
I don't think that, uh, unless a greater effort is made by the government to win popular support that the war can be won out there.
In the final analysis, it's their war.
Hasn't every indication from Saigon been that, uh, President Diem has no intention of changing his pattern? If he doesn't change it, of course, that's his decision.
He's been there ten years and, as I say, he has carried this burden when he has been counted out on a number of occasions.
Our best judgment is that he can't be successful in this basis.
But I don't agree with those who say we should withdraw.
That would be a great mistake. That'd be a great mistake.
I know people don't like Americans to be engaged in this kind of an effort.
Forty-seven Americans have been killed.
We're in a very, uh, desperate struggle against the communist system.
And, uh, I don't want Asia to pass into the control of the Chinese.
Do you think that this government still has time -to regain the support of the people? -I do. I do.
With changes in policy and perhaps with, uh, in personnel, I think it can.
If it doesn't make those changes, I would think that the chances of winning it would not be very good.
Despite the cable, Kennedy and his advisors were sharply divided about a coup.
Robert McNamara, Maxwell Taylor, Vice President Lyndon Johnson, and the head of the CIA all cautioned against it, because, while none of them especially admired Diem, they did not believe there was any viable alternative.
Fritz Nolting was called in.
And he said, "As difficult as they are to deal with, there is nobody with the guts and sangfroid in Vietnam of Diem and his brother Nhu.
And if we let them go, we will be saddled by a descending cycle of mediocre generals." And he was absolutely correct.
But several State Department officials believed that without fresh leadership, South Vietnam could not survive.
The debate intensified.
My God, the president said, "my administration is coming apart." In the end, Kennedy instructed Lodge to tell the renegade generals that while the United States does not wish to stimulate a coup, it would not thwart one either.
The generals laid their plans.
On November 1, 1963, troops loyal to the plotters seized key installations in Saigon and demanded Diem and Nhu surrender.
The battle for the city went on for 18 hours and most of it was centered on the presidential palace.
Just after 6:30 in the morning Saturday, the shooting ceased.
Diem and Nhu escaped, took sanctuary in a church, and agreed to surrender to the rebels in exchange for the promise of safe passage out of the country.
They were picked up in an armored personnel carrier...
And murdered soon after they climbed inside.
Madame Nhu survived the coup.
She was on a goodwill tour in the United States.
The system was overthrown on November 1.
I was released November 4.
And it was the most exciting moment in the life of Saigon.
The excitement, you could feel it in the air.
I was, uh, thinking that, uh, yeah, it's a good thing.
Diem was making it impossible to win the war because people were so against him that the war would be lost if he stayed in power.
My father was a bit worried because he didn't know who was going to replace Diem.
Ambassador Lodge reported to Washington that "every Vietnamese has a smile on his face today." "The prospects are now for a shorter war," he said, "provided the generals stay together.
Certainly officers and soldiers who can pull off an operation like this," he continued, "should be able to do very well on the battlefield if their hearts are in it." President Kennedy was not so sure.
He was appalled that Diem and Nhu had been killed.
Three days later, he dictated his own rueful account of the coup and his concerns for the future.
Monday, November 4, 1963.
Over the weekend, the coup in Saigon took place.
It culminated three months of conversation, which divided the government here and in Saigon.
I feel that we must bear a good deal of responsibility for it, beginning with our cable of August in which we suggested the coup.
I, uh, should not have given my consent to it without a round table conference.
I was shocked by the death of Diem and Nhu.
The way he was killed made it particularly abhorrent.
The question now is whether the generals can stay together and build a stable government or whether public opinion in Saigon will turn on this government as repressive and undemocratic in the not-too-distant future.
Kennedy would not live to see the answer to the question he had asked.
He was murdered in Dallas 18 days later.
There were now 16,000 American advisors in South Vietnam.
Their fate and the fate of that embattled country rested with another American president, Lyndon Baines Johnson.
We thought we were the exceptions to history, we Americans.
History didn't apply to us.
We could never fight a bad war.
We could never represent the wrong cause.
We were Americans.
Well, in Vietnam it proved that we were not an exception to history.
Well, I wanted to name him after his dad, Denton Winslow Crocker.
So that was the name we chose.
He was a colicky little baby.
And, uh, so we were up night and day with him.
And my husband was a wonderful dad and very loving and attentive.
He'd walk the floor with him.
And then he said one day, "He's a regular little mogul the way he rules our lives." So that's where the name came from.
We called him Mogie.
Mogie Crocker was born June 3, 1947, the oldest of four children.
His father was a biology teacher, and Mogie was raised in college towns.
Ithaca, Amherst, and finally Saratoga Springs, to which the family moved in 1960, when he was 13.
My mother read books to all of us.
My brother was definitely the one who probably gravitated towards that more than I did.
He really feasted on books.
Mogie was an unusual boy.
Intelligent, independent-minded, and too nearsighted to do well at team sports, he loved books about American history and American heroes.
At 12, he started a diary in which he kept track of Cold War events.
I hate Reds! he wrote, and he admired most those who had proved willing to sacrifice themselves for a cause.
President John F. Kennedy's call for every American to ask what he or she could do for their country had mirrored ideas he'd held since he was a small boy.
One evening when I was reading to Denton before he went to sleep, I chose a passage from Henry V, which is, "He today that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother.
And gentlemen in England now a-bed shall think themselves accurs'd they were not here and hold their manhood cheap while any speaks that fought with us upon St. Crispin's Day." I think that it was that sort of thing that made Denton want to be part of something important and brave.
I just stayed awake last night thinking about this thing.
The more I think of it, I don't know what in the hell...
it looks like to me we're getting into another Korea.
It just worries the hell out of me.
I don't see what we can ever hope to get out of there with once we're committed.
I don't think it's worth fighting for and I don't think we can get out.
And it's just the biggest damn mess I ever saw.
It is, it's an awful mess.
I just thought about ordering those kids in there, and what in the hell am I ordering them out there for? One thing that has occurred to me-- What the hell is Vietnam worth to me? What is it worth to this country? Yeah, yeah.
Now, of course, if you start running the communists, they may just chase you right into your own kitchen.
Yeah. That's the trouble.
And that is what the rest of that half of the world is going to think if this thing comes apart on us.
It's damned easy to get in a war, but it's going to be awfully hard to ever extricate yourself if you get in.
It's very easy...
To debate it? All right, what's a possible time...
Tragedy had brought Lyndon Johnson to the presidency in November of 1963.
And he would not feel himself fully in charge until he had faced the voters the following year.
But his ambitions for his country were as great as those of his hero, Franklin Roosevelt.
During his years in the White House, he would lead the struggle to win passage of more than 200 important pieces of legislation.
The Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, federal aid to education, Head Start, Medicare, and a whole series of bills aimed at ending poverty in America, all intended to create what he called "The Great Society." In foreign affairs, Johnson was less self-assured.
Foreigners are not like the folks I'm used to, he once said.
To deal with them, he retained in office all of John Kennedy's top advisors.
Dean Rusk at State, Robert McNamara at Defense, McGeorge Bundy as his National Security Advisor.
I need you, he told them, more than his predecessor had.
Publicly, Johnson pledged that "This nation will keep its commitments from South Vietnam to West Berlin." But privately, Vietnam filled him with dread.
It's going to be hell in a handbasket out there, his ambassador told him.
I want the South Vietnamese to get off their butts and get out into those jungles and whip the hell out of some communists, the president said.
And then I want 'em to leave me alone, because I've got some bigger things to do right here at home. Johnson had opposed the military coup that had overthrown and murdered South Vietnamese president Ngo Dinh Diem, fearing it would make a bad situation worse.
It had.
The National Liberation Front, the Viet Cong, was making coordinated attacks throughout the countryside, some 400 of them in just two weeks.
When Diem was overthrown, we were so excited, we thought we were close to liberating the whole country.
We began attacking the enemy day and night.
More and more puppet soldiers surrendered or defected to our side.
More and more young people joined our armed forces.
An estimated 40% of the South Vietnamese countryside, and more than 50% of the people, were effectively in the hands of the Viet Cong.
And the Vietnamese generals who had overthrown Ngo Dinh Diem were bickering among themselves.
The assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem set in motion a series of coups.
Each government was less effective than the one before.
In January 1964, with U.S. encouragement, General Nguyen Khanh staged yet another coup.
In March, Johnson sent McNamara to Vietnam with instructions to show the people that Khanh was "our boy." Johnson said, "Let's get him out and get him speaking to people, and let McNamara go with him as well so that people can see that the United States is solidly behind this man." We fully support the people of South Vietnam.
It was natural for the American to support the man on the spot.
So he went along with General Khanh in a kind of trip somewhere in the countryside.
When Khanh gave a tedious, long, laborious speech ending up with...
Vietnam a thousand years. McNamara leaned over to the microphone and said...
The American pronounce it has a different meaning in Vietnamese.
What he was saying was something like, "The little duck, he wants to lie down." He wasn't aware of the tonal difference.
And McNamara grabbed one fist and held them up.
And the crowd practically disintegrated on the cobblestones.
No more of this coup shit, President Johnson told his advisors.
But Khanh, too, lacked popular legitimacy, and other generals continued to jockey for power.
Washington turned a deaf ear to Buddhist calls for the genuinely representative government they'd hoped they'd get when Diem was overthrown.
Between January 1964 and June of 1965, there would be eight different governments.
All of their leaders were so close to the Americans that they were seen as puppets.
One weary Johnson aide suggested that the national symbol of South Vietnam should be a turnstile.
These demonstrating students seem to symbolize the kind of anarchy that is descending on Saigon these days.
This kind of political backbiting is having serious consequences in the countryside, for until a strong government begins to function here in Saigon, the war against the communists will continue to founder.
It's very difficult to talk about Uncle Ho.
I was close to him.
Once a senior cadre asked him, "Uncle, how come you wear rubber sandals and such simple khaki clothes?" And Ho asked him, "If your people are barefoot, what do you do? Who's above whom?" Ho Chi Minh was still a beloved figure in North Vietnam, still concerned that his country remained fragile, still wary that stepping up the conflict in the South might force the Americans to take a still more active role.
But Ho now shared power with younger, more impatient leaders.
There had been change and turmoil in North Vietnam, too, just as there had been in Saigon and Washington, though Americans knew almost nothing about it.
There were two factions in the North.
Although they agreed on liberating the South, they were still debating how much violence should be used.
At the Ninth Party Plenum that began in Hanoi on November 22, 1963, the day President Kennedy was killed in Dallas, the Politburo had argued over how best to proceed in the war.
North Vietnam's two communist patrons, the Soviet Union and China, were giving them conflicting advice.
We called them the two big brothers.
The USSR had a new policy of de-escalating the Cold War, while China urged worldwide revolution through violence.
In two weeks of sometimes bitter debate, Ho Chi Minh, who favored the Soviet strategy, was outmaneuvered by party First Secretary Le Duan, who sided with the Chinese.
So when they cast their ballots, Ho excused himself and left the room.
After that, Ho Chi Minh's actual power was significantly diminished.
From then on, the person with total power, and who controlled the war, was Le Duan.
Le Duan believed that with Diem gone, and the Saigon government in disarray, it was time to move quickly in 1964.
He proposed a two-phase plan for victory in South Vietnam.
The first phase would destroy A.R.V.N. forces through big, "decisive battles".
The second, an attack on the cities, Le Duan believed, would then set off popular revolts within them.
Party leaders and others suspected of having opposed the plan were denounced as "revisionists," demoted, dismissed, imprisoned.
Hundreds were sent to "re-education camps." "Uncle Ho wavers," Le Duan said, "but I have only one goal, final victory." Secretary McNamara on line 0.
Bob? Yes, Mr. President? I hate to bother you, but...
No trouble at all.
Tell me, have we got anybody that's got a military mind that can give us some military plans for winning that war? Let's get some more of something, my friend, because I'm going to have a heart attack if you don't get me something.
We need somebody over there that can get us some better plans than we got, because what we got is what we've had since '54.
We're not getting it done.
We're... We're losing.
Well, it's one reason I want to go back.
Kick 'em in the tail a little bit will help here at this point.
Yeah.
What I want is somebody to lay up some plans to trap these guys and whup hell out of 'em.
Kill some of 'em.
That's what I want to do.
I'll try and bring something back that will meet that objective.
Okay, Bob.
Thank you.
When his counselors urged him to do so, Johnson increased the number of American military personnel from 16,000 to more than 23,000 by the end of the year.
But he wanted his own team in Saigon.
He replaced Henry Cabot Lodge, making General Maxwell Taylor his ambassador, and selected 49-year-old General William Westmoreland, a decorated commander from WWII and Korea, to lead the American military effort.
The president hoped to force Hanoi to abandon its support for the guerrilla struggle in the South by gradually escalating military pressure.
He authorized American pilots to bomb North Vietnamese troops and installations in the neighboring country of Laos.
And he directed the military to oversee South Vietnamese shelling of North Vietnamese islands and raids on coastal bases.
All of it was to be conducted in secret.
The American people were not to be told.
It was an election year.
Meanwhile, the Joint Chiefs of Staff felt strongly that the United States was fighting on the enemy's terms and urged far more drastic and dramatic action, air strikes against "critical targets" in North Vietnam itself and the deployment of U.S. forces in South Vietnam, boots on the ground.
Johnson refused, fearing that such aggressive moves would pull China into the conflict just as it had entered the Korean War in 1950.
They say get in or get out.
Yeah.
And I told them, we haven't got any Congress that will go with us, and we haven't got any mothers that will go with us in the war, and I got to win an election and then you can make a decision.
Polls showed him with a commanding lead over his likely Republican opponent, Senator Barry F. Goldwater of Arizona, a blunt, uncompromising critic of what he charged was the administration's weakness in the face of communist aggression.
Why does he put off facing the question of what to do about Vietnam? Does he hope that he can wait until after the election to confront the American public with the...
Here were these communists who were overrunning Southeast Asia and Johnson's doing nothing about it.
My opponent has not told you what he plans to do about the Cold War.
I rode around the back of a flatbed truck in Perkasie with a bunch of my classmates singing Barry Goldwater campaign songs because Lyndon Johnson was not tough enough on those communists.
Johnson felt he did not yet have the political capital to take further action in Vietnam, but he asked his aide, William Bundy, to draft a congressional resolution authorizing him to use force if needed, to be sent to Capitol Hill when the time was right.
On July 30, 1964, South Vietnamese ships under the direction of the U.S. military shelled two North Vietnamese islands in the Gulf of Tonkin.
The tiny North Vietnamese Navy was put on high alert.
What followed was one of the most controversial and consequential events in American history.
On the afternoon of August 2, the destroyer U.S.S. Maddox was moving slowly through international waters in the gulf on an intelligence-gathering mission in support of further South Vietnamese action against the North.
The commander of a North Vietnamese torpedo-boat squadron moved to attack the Maddox.
The Americans opened fire and missed.
North Vietnamese torpedoes also missed.
But carrier-based U.S. planes damaged two of the North Vietnamese boats and left a third dead in the water.
Ho Chi Minh was shocked to hear of his navy's attack and demanded to know who had ordered it.
The officer on duty was officially reprimanded for impulsiveness.
No one may ever know who gave the order to attack.
To this day, even the Vietnamese cannot agree.
But some believe it was Le Duan.
The person behind the decision had to have been First Secretary Le Duan.
In 1964, Le Duan wanted to elevate the war to a new level.
Why would a shrewd, calculating leader like Le Duan do that? The countryside was in our hands.
And if the Americans hadn't intervened directly with a large military force, by 1965, perhaps, the South Vietnamese regime would have collapsed.
Back in Washington, the Joint Chiefs urged immediate retaliation against North Vietnam.
The president refused.
Instead, the White House issued a warning about the "grave consequences" that would follow what it called "any further unprovoked" attacks, even though Johnson knew the attack had been provoked by the South Vietnamese raids on North Vietnam's islands.
Both sides were playing a dangerous game.
On August 4, American radio operators mistranslated North Vietnamese radio traffic and concluded a new military operation was imminent.
Actually, Hanoi had simply called upon torpedo boat commanders to be ready for a new raid by the South Vietnamese.
The Maddox and another destroyer, the Turner Joy, braced for a fresh attack.
So did the White House.
Go ahead, Mac.
I-I personally would recommend to you, after a second attack on our ships, that we do retaliate against the coast of North Vietnam some way or other...
What I was thinking about when I was eating breakfast, when they move on us and they shoot at us, I think we not only ought to shoot at them, but almost simultaneously pull one of these things that you've been doing on one of their bridges or something.
Exactly. I quite agree with you, Mr. President.
But I wish we could have something that we've already picked out, and just hit about three of them damn quick, right after.
No second attack ever happened, but at the time, anxious American sonar operators aboard the Maddox and Turner Joy convinced themselves one had.
The attack was probable but not certain, Johnson was told, and since it had probably occurred, the president decided it should not go unanswered.
Aggression by terror against the peaceful villagers of South Vietnam has now been joined by open aggression on the high seas against the United States of America.
Yet our response, for the present, will be limited and fitting.
We Americans know, although others appear to forget, the risk of spreading conflict.
We still seek no wider war.
If that came to be where we would be called upon to carry out our responsibilities, and having been well-trained for this, I never really gave it much thought.
It was part of my duty.
Lieutenant Everett Alvarez from Salinas, California, was aboard the U.S.S. carrier Constellation.
His squadron of Skyhawk A-4 planes was ordered to attack torpedo boat installations and oil facilities near the port of Hon Gai.
For the first time, American pilots were going to drop bombs on North Vietnam.
When we approached the target coming down from altitude, it was obvious that they could pick us up on their radar.
I remember my knees shaking.
And I was saying, "Holy smokes, I'm going into war.
This is war." I was a bit scared.
Once we went in and they started firing at us, the fear went away.
Everything became smooth, deathly quiet in the cockpit.
It was sort of like a symphony in the sense that my plane was just like a ballet in the sky, and I was just performing what I was doing.
And then I got hit.
Mayday, Mayday.
Coastal militiamen captured Alvarez and turned him over to the North Vietnamese military.
One fella was yelling at me in Vietnamese and saying something.
I started talking to him in Spanish.
Don't ask me why.
It seemed like a good idea at the time.
After when they discovered U.S.A. on my ID card and then they started speaking to me in English.
Alvarez assumed he would be treated as a prisoner of war.
I was sticking to the code of conduct, which is giving them name, rank, service number, and date of birth.
But they quickly reminded me that there was no state of war, no declaration of war.
So I could not be considered a prisoner of war.
I recall thinking about it, and I says, "You know what? They're right." Everett Alvarez was the first American airman to be shot out of the sky over North Vietnam, and the first to be imprisoned there.
Now, the president sent up to Capitol Hill the resolution he had asked his aide William Bundy to draft two months earlier.
Johnson is sort of prepositioned to move anyway, and it gives him really the incident that he needs to go to Congress and ask for a resolution that will allow him to deal with what he sees as aggression in Vietnam.
And what he gets is the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, which is, what he says, like "Grandma's nightshirt", it covers everything.
I think what Johnson is looking for is the opportunity, the right time to send a message to North Vietnam that we're serious about supporting South Vietnam.
That message is sent, I think we misread the enemy because they're just as serious as we are.
On August 7, 1964, by a vote of 88-2, the Senate passed what came to be called the Tonkin Gulf Resolution.
In the House, not a single congressman opposed it.
Senator Goldwater could no longer plausibly claim Johnson was failing to fight back against North Vietnam, while those voters concerned that the United States was in danger of becoming too deeply involved admired the president's measured response.
Support for Johnson's handling of the war jumped overnight from 42% to 72%.
The American public believed their president.
Le Duan and his comrades in Hanoi did not.
They had little faith in the president's claim that he sought no wider war.
They resolved to step up their efforts to win the struggle in the South before the United States escalated its presence by sending in combat troops.
For the first time, Hanoi began sending North Vietnamese regulars into the South, down the network of paths they had hacked out of the Laotian jungle, the Ho Chi Minh Trail.
This is Bien Hoa Air Base, the biggest in South Vietnam, hours after being hit by a communist mortar barrage.
On November 1, Viet Cong guerrillas shelled the American airbase at Bien Hoa near Saigon.
Five Americans died.
Thirty were wounded.
Five B-57 bombers were destroyed on the ground and 15 more were damaged.
Mr. Ambassador, do you think this shows any new capability that they've got, the Viet Cong? Uh, I would simply say they've never done this before.
The Joint Chiefs advised the president to mount an immediate all-out air attack on 94 targets in the North and to send in regular Army and Marine units, not more advisors, to South Vietnam as well.
He would not do it.
The election was just two days away.
Lyndon Baines Johnson won the presidency in his own right, and he won it by a landslide.
Within a month, the president would approve what was called a "graduated response," limited air attacks on the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos and "tit for tat" retaliatory raids on North Vietnamese targets.
But he refused to undertake sustained bombing of the North until the South Vietnamese got their own house in order.
In private, Johnson doubted that airpower alone would ever work and believed that he would eventually have to send in ground troops, though he was not yet willing publicly to say so.
In the fall of '64, Denton was 17 and he was determined to go into the service.
Mogie Crocker had been restless since the summer.
After the Gulf of Tonkin incident, he had confided to his sister that he wanted to join the Navy, but he knew his parents would not sign the consent form that would have allowed a 17-year-old to enlist.
He was talking about wanting to go into the service and that his attempts to go underage had failed.
And that he wanted my parents to support him in that.
His parents tried to persuade him that he could be more useful to his country with a college education than as just another private.
Mogie was adamant.
Monday morning he left for school.
And I watched him leave.
But that night he didn't come in for supper and he hadn't called.
The day that my brother ran away has to be one of the most bizarre experiences in my life.
I eventually happened to look in my piggy bank and he had taken the money I had and left a note for me.
He had promised he would pay me back.
He was gone about four months and said that he would not come home unless we agreed to sign for him.
And he wouldn't be 18 until June.
But we did agree and he did come home.
My husband felt it was an honor-bound agreement.
I was hoping that I could change his mind.
To my mind, the Marine Corps represented the very best.
And it does.
They are the best.
And I wanted to be part of the best.
I was competitive. I was pugnacious.
But I wanted to get in the Marine Corps and go to the first war I could find.
Lieutenant Philip Brady, from Port Washington, New York, arrived in Saigon just a few days after Lyndon Johnson's election, one of the new advisors sent to help shore up the South Vietnamese military.
We must ensure that women and children are not injured.
General Westmoreland himself greeted the newcomers.
He was an impressive-looking man with an impressive record.
Many of the men he'd led in Tunisia, Sicily, and Normandy during World War II called him Superman.
He'd fought with distinction in Korea, commanded the 101st Airborne, served as superintendent of West Point.
TIME magazine called him "the sinewy personification of the American fighting man." But at the same time, win the hearts and the minds of the people.
General Westmoreland told us that we were down on the five-yard line and we just needed a few more to go get the touchdown.
Then I went out and then I got on the ground.
And then I found out, "Don't you realize? We're losing this war." Lieutenant Brady was assigned to assist Captain Frank Eller, senior advisor to the 4th Battalion of the Vietnamese Marine Corps, an elite unit whose members called themselves the "Killer Sharks." You were told that you were going over there to guide, educate, and elevate essentially these "little fellas" on how to fight a war, when in fact, they knew exactly how to fight the war.
You were just an appendage.
You were there simply to guide assets that they didn't have, American artillery, American air strikes.
Brady did his best to get to know the South Vietnamese marines in his unit.
Phil Brady come in as an assistant of the senior advisor.
I said that, "You are not my advisor. You are my helper." And also, "You are so tall and big.
Stay away from me.
Because if you get close to me some Viet Cong sniper will shoot, shoot at you and then they miss you and then hit me." Lieutenant Tran Ngoc Toan, the son of a trucker, had escaped life with a hostile stepmother by entering the South Vietnamese Military Academy at Dalat.
He'd been fighting the Viet Cong for more than two years.
Toan was one of the junior officers.
I think he was a... I think he was a company commander.
I knew him, I liked him.
He was a Dalat graduate, which is like their West Point.
Very dedicated.
Later we found out we understand each other more than that, because we are at the same generation.
Brady, Toan, and the 4th South Vietnamese Marine Battalion were stationed near the Bien Hoa Airbase in reserve, waiting to be called into action.
There were new rumors now, of larger enemy units moving through the countryside.
Le Duan's plan to win a quick and decisive victory was underway.
My youngest brother's name was Nguyen Thanh Hoang.
He was a scout.
He was killed.
If you enter the cemetery, his grave is on your left.
It's the sixth grave in the sixth row.
We visit his grave one a year to remember him.
I would like to say one more thing.
My brother had a fiancee.
He brought her home to meet our mother.
My mother was very happy to have her as a daughter-in-law.
When my brother was killed, she refused to marry another man, and took her own life instead.
Nguyen Van Tong was a political officer in the newly created Viet Cong 9th Division, one of perhaps 2000 Viet Cong and North Vietnamese troops who had for weeks been quietly filtering into Phuoc Tuy, a supposedly "pacified" province less than 40 miles southeast of Saigon.
My view was, in a war, if you can't destroy the enemy's main forces, the enemy's backbone, you can't win.
If we didn't destroy those forces, the war would last forever.
The target for Toan and his comrades was the strategic hamlet of Binh Gia, home to some 6,000 Catholic anticommunist refugees.
Their plan was to seize the hamlet and then annihilate the forces Saigon was sure to send to retake it.
To ensure success, tons of heavy weapons were smuggled onto the coast under cover of darkness, mortars, machine guns, recoilless rifles capable of blasting tanks.
The communists had never attempted anything on this scale before.
Before dawn on December 28, Viet Cong advance units easily overwhelmed the village militia and occupied Binh Gia.
When two crack South Vietnamese Ranger companies were helicoptered in the next day, they were ambushed and shot to pieces.
On the morning of the 30th, Philip Brady, his friend Tran Ngoc Toan, and the 4th Marine Battalion were flown in to relieve and reinforce the Rangers.
The enemy withdrew east of the village.
Around 5 p.m. a helicopter hovered over our position, right above the regimental command post.
The regimental commander asked, "Can you shoot it down?" We said, "Yes, we can." And a minute later the helicopter was hit and burst into flames.
All of a sudden you could see the tracers come out of the plantation, hit the helicopter, it crashed.
We were ordered to go down and retrieve the remains the following morning.
I came to the place where the helicopter crashed, and I saw four Americans, dead.
At the time, I didn't realize how valuable the lives of the American advisors were.
The commanding officer from Saigon told the battalion you have to come in and get all four American servicemen body.
They sent an entire battalion to retrieve four American advisors.
The lead company got to the remains and then was pounced on and mauled badly.
Twelve South Vietnamese Marines from Toan's unit were killed getting to the downed helicopter.
Their comrades wrapped them in ponchos and laid them out next to the dead Americans.
An American chopper dropped into the clearing.
The American crew jumped out under fire, picked up the four Americans, climbed back into their chopper, and took off again.
And we told them, "Hey, try to get all my body out of here too." But they refuse to pick up our body.
For three hours, Toan and his men stayed with their own dead waiting for a helicopter to carry them off the battlefield.
Meanwhile, I am getting a little bit antsy because, first of all, we're losing light.
Second of all, we are now outside of artillery range.
We've got to get out of there.
We have to move out of here because they coming.
And we don't have time.
I went to the Major Nho, his name was, and I said, "Major, we have to get out of here now." And Nho said, "Don't you forget I am a major, and you are a lieutenant," turned on his heel and walked away.
Ten minutes later all hell broke loose.
They start shelling.
They start shelling into our bodies.
That's the first time in the war of Vietnam they start shelling before they attack.
The shelling eventually died down.
But then bugles blew, and wave after wave of enemy troops advanced toward the badly outnumbered men.
It was as if you turned a soundtrack of shooting...
It just went...  Just like that. All of a sudden it came out of nowhere.
We used what little air strikes we had left with helicopters, calling in the strikes on our position to slow it down.
There was no way.
We were surrounded and they keep coming.
I was shot.
The first shot, right here.
And then, the second shot was right here.
The AK-47 put through right here, make a big hole like this.
But I still keep fighting.
I don't feel any pain at all.
I don't have time to think about it.
What we did was we tried to get out.
Twenty-six of us broke through.
Eleven ultimately made it.
All that night, the Viet Cong moved among the trees, carrying away their wounded and shooting any South Vietnamese troops they found alive.
I played dead.
And the Viet Cong come in and they kick my body.
One bullet will get through right here.
And suddenly I feel, oh, I'm still alive.
No problem.
So I just play, still playing dead.
And then they move back and they withdraw.
Cradling his rifle in his arms, Toan began trying to crawl toward Binh Gia.
He was not found for three days.
And one of the paratroop, he come to pick me up, and he said.
Oh it's horrible. He smell horrible.         
Like a dead rat." And I look back at all the worms and ants around my wounds.
By that time, I have time to feel pain.
Because all three days I'm trying to survive.
When it was all over, five Americans had died at Binh Gia.
Thirty-two Viet Cong bodies had been left on the battlefield.
Two hundred South Vietnamese were killed, 200 more were wounded.
I'll never forget those sights.
Everywhere we went, we saw corpses of the Saigon soldiers.
What it really said was they were capable of marshaling this kind of force.
The Vietnamese officers I talked to in the Marine Corps figured they had six months before the end.
The big question after Binh Gia, an American officer at headquarters said, "is how a thousand or more enemy troops could wander around the countryside so close to Saigon without being discovered.
That tells you something about this war." Hanoi was exultant.
Ho Chi Minh called it "a little Dien Bien Phu." Le Duan was convinced his strategy was working.
The liberation war of South Vietnam has progressed by leaps and bounds, he said.
After the battle of Ap Bac two years ago, the enemy knew it would be difficult to defeat us.        
After Binh Gia, the enemy realizes that he is in the process of being defeated by us." I believe the battle at Binh Gia was historic milestone in the war.
If the Americans hadn't gotten involved, we would have entered Saigon in 1966.
I, Lyndon Baines Johnson, do solemnly swear...
Twenty-six days after the Binh Gia battle ended and just a week after President Johnson's inauguration, McGeorge Bundy handed the president a memorandum.
I will to the best of my ability.
The current strategy was clearly not working, it said.
The Viet Cong were on the move and on the rise, supplied and now steadily reinforced with soldiers from North Vietnam.
If an independent South Vietnam was to survive, the United States needed to act fast.
The administration faced two choices, Bundy said.
It could go along as it had been going and try to negotiate some kind of face-saving settlement.
Or they could use still more American military power to force the North to abandon its goal of uniting the country.
Bundy and McNamara favored that option.
Unless the president chose it, they said, South Vietnam would fall.
I don't think anything, Johnson told McNamara, "is going to be as bad as losing." Then, a little over a week later, guerrillas struck an American helicopter base at Pleiku in the Central Highlands, killing eight American advisors and wounding over 100 more.
Approximately 24 hours ago, the first attack in the Pleiku area...
Johnson immediately approved an air strike on a North Vietnamese army barracks.
On February 10, 1965, the Viet Cong blew up a hotel in Qui Nhon, killing 23 Americans and pinning 21 more beneath the rubble.
Johnson ordered another airstrike.
Anxiety about what seemed to be happening spread around the world.
France, which had spent nearly a century in Vietnam, now called for an end to all foreign involvement there.
The British prime minister urged restraint.
Many leaders of the president's own party agreed, though not in public.
In a private memorandum, Johnson's own vice president, Hubert Humphrey, warned him that widening the war would undercut the Great Society, damage America's image overseas, and end any hope of improving relations with the Soviet Union.
Johnson never responded.
Instead, on March 2, 1965, the United States began a systematic bombardment of targets in North Vietnam, code-named Operation Rolling Thunder.
It was meant to be a "mounting crescendo" of air raids, Ambassador Taylor wrote, intended to bolster morale in the South and destroy morale in the North.
The thesis behind Rolling Thunder, as I understood it, was that as we ratcheted up the tempo and the volume of this effort against the North Vietnamese, sooner or later they would cry uncle.
And there'd be a pause, and we would begin to negotiate our way out of this situation.
This became an article of faith.
And this article of faith was a fallacious assumption.
They weren't going to give up.
They read us better than we read them.
The president insisted on strict secrecy, the American people were not to be told that the administration had changed its policy from retaliatory airstrikes to systematic bombing, that he had, in fact, widened the war.
They jointly agreed that joint retaliatory action was required.
General Westmoreland, who had initially been hesitant about committing ground troops to Vietnam, now asked for two battalions of Marines, 3,500 men, to protect the Danang airbase from which fighter-bombers were hitting the North.
Ambassador Taylor, who had once called for ground troops, now objected to the whole idea.
Once you put that first soldier ashore, he wrote, "you never know how many others are going to follow him." But the president felt he had no choice but to give Westmoreland what he asked for.
He knew he would be blamed if more American advisors died.
I feel like a jackass caught in a Texas hailstorm, he complained.
I can't run, I can't hide, and I can't make it stop. In March of 1965, Johnson finally took the action he had managed to avoid for so long.
He was putting American ground troops in Vietnam.
The government of South Vietnam was not even consulted.
The United States of America had larger considerations.
Clearly, we saw it in terms of the Cold War.
Assistant Secretary of Defense John McNaughton said...
He said our interests there were 70% to avoid humiliation, 20% to contain China, and ten percent to help the Vietnamese.
Johnson quietly told his good friend, Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, what was about to happen.
I guess we got no choice, but it scares the death out of me.
I think everybody's going to think, "We're landing the Marines.
We're off to battle." Of course, if they come up there, they're going to get them in a fight.
And if they ruin those airplanes, everybody is going to give me hell for not securing them, just like they did last time they made a raid.
Yeah.
What do you... What do you think? Well, Mr. President, it scares the life out of me.
But I don't know how to back up now.
It looks to me like we just got in this thing, and there's no way out.
I don't know.
Uh, Dick, the great trouble I'm under...
A man can fight if he can see daylight down the road somewhere.
But there ain't no daylight in Vietnam.
There's not a bit.
On March 8, 1965, Dr. Phan Huy Quat, yet another prime minister of South Vietnam, called his chief of staff, Bui Diem.
And Dr. Quat said, "There are three Marine battalions landing in Danang right now." I was flabbergasted. I said, "But why?" So he calmed me down. He said that, "No, okay. We talk about it later.
But right now, try to be brief and draft a communique, announcing the landing of three Marine battalions, and welcoming the landing in the same time." I was very unhappy.
The Marines were landing at Danang on the east coast of South Vietnam, some 100 miles south of the demilitarized zone that divided the North from the South.
They were prepared to fight their way ashore.
They did not need to.
What struck me was how beautiful Vietnam was to look at.
There were just these endless acres of these jade-green rice paddies.
And these lovely villages inside these groves of bamboo and palm trees.
And way off in the distance these bluish jungled mountains, and they looked like Shangri-La.
And I remember seeing this line of Vietnamese women, or schoolgirls I think they were.
They actually looked like angels come to earth or something like that.
So it was really quite striking, but a little unsettling because...  ...so how can a place like this, so beautiful and so enchanting, be at war? My father was very happy.
We're such a small and poor country and the Americans have decided to come in to save us not only with their money, their resources, but even with their own lives.
We were very grateful. We thought the...
Sure enough with this power, the Americans are going to win.
Seeing foreign troops marching past his village, an old man emerged from his home shouting, "Vivent les Francais!" He thought the French had returned.
The problem around here, a Marine captain leading a patrol told a reporter, "is who the hell is who?" As a voting member of Saigon Mission Council, I was opposed to the entry of American ground combat forces.
I felt if the Vietnamese had to beat them off with a bloody stump, they had to do it themselves.
We had to do everything we humanly could to help them, but we could not win it for them.
So, I think we crossed the River Styx at that point.
In the deep of every Vietnamese mind, foreigner is the invader.
So, when the American come in, the Viet Cong can recruit more people to fight against the invader.
The first protest I went to against the war in Vietnam was a protest at a Dow Chemical facility.
Dow was manufacturing napalm.
They were dropping napalm on villages in Vietnam.
It was a very disappointing experience because only 40 people came.
And we seemed very out of place and very ineffectual, impotent, standing outside with 40 people.
Most Americans understood little about Indochina, rarely knew anyone actually involved in the fighting, saw no reason to question the government's assertion that the United States had vital interests 8,000 miles from home.
Still, there was a small but growing number of people who had begun to oppose the war for any number of reasons.
Because they thought it unjust or immoral, believed it was unconstitutional or simply not in the national interest.
 Oh I marched to the battle Of New Orleans...  Two weeks after the Marines landed at Danang, members of the University of Michigan faculty organized a night-long discussion between professors and some 3,000 students about the escalation of the war.
The demonstration was called a teach-in because the idea originated with a group of university professors.
What do you hope to accomplish? I'd like to open up communication between people and the government, because I believe that they are not telling us what is going on, and the people have the right to know, and we have the right to tell the government what we think.
Soon, there were teach-ins on most major university campuses.
There is no morally wonderful way out.
NYU in Manhattan, the University of Wisconsin in Madison, the University of California in Berkeley.
The teach-ins were really raucous affairs.
A lot of contention.
...we want to discuss is what's wrong with the Vietnam War, and...
 But I ain't marchin' Anymore  Do you endorse the administration's policy in South Vietnam? Whole-heartedly.
There were plenty of times when people who were supportive of the war came to these teach-ins to try to give an alternative anticommunist point of view.
They were often shouted down.
The bombing of the North and the Marines' arrival also drew protesters to Washington that spring.
The demonstration was organized by the Students for a Democratic Society, the SDS.
I saw SDS calling for a demonstration at the White House in the spring of 1965.
I didn't want to go because I didn't want to be disappointed in the same way again and, you know, go all the way to Washington and stand outside the White House with 40 people.
Twenty-five thousand people attended that rally.
And that suddenly told me and others I was working with at the time that it might be possible to build an antiwar movement.
It was quite astounding to think that he had that degree of commitment.
And it made sense in what we knew of him, as drastic as it was.
Nothing Mogie Crocker's parents could say or do since Mogie had come home shook his determination to serve, and recent developments in Vietnam had only strengthened his resolve.
He wanted to become a paratrooper and get into combat.
His parents finally, reluctantly, agreed to let him go, and on March 15, a week after the first Marines landed at Danang, Denton Crocker, Jr. entered the United States Army.
So Denton bounced down the steps one morning and was off to Fort Dix.
It was in a way a sort of relief, actually, that the conflict and the anxiety over whether he would or would not go was done.
And he was happy.
And we just tried to believe that this was the right thing for him to do.
In the early days, I wasn't very scared.
But when I saw dead people, that scared me.
The Americans bombed a village for hours.
We ran over to see what had happened.
The village was unrecognizable.
From then on, I knew that war had arrived.
Le Minh Khue was orphaned as a small girl, her parents victims of the brutal land reforms the communists had imposed.
She was raised by her aunt and uncle, who encouraged her to read American literature.
She was 16 when Operation Rolling Thunder began.
My house was next to a home for the elderly.
It was completely destroyed.
Bombs fell on the market and the school.
Then, a recruiter came asking for volunteers.
My head was full of a strong spirit of adventure.
But I was too young. You had to be 17.
So I lied about my age and signed up.
Khue was assigned to an organization called the "Youth Shock Brigades Against the Americans for National Salvation," and along with thousands of other young people was sent south to work keeping open the Ho Chi Minh Trail.
Before I left, my uncle said, "American literature is very unique.
You should bring some with you." I loved American literature ever since, and in particular, I live Hemingway.
I learned from "For Whom the Bell Tolls." Like the resourcefulness of the man who destroys the bridge.
I saw how he coped with war, and I learned from that character.
As Johnson had feared, it quickly became clear that the bombing campaign alone was not working.
Troops and supplies continued steadily to filter down the Ho Chi Minh Trail.
General Westmoreland and the Joint Chiefs called for more men, tens of thousands of them.
The president was cautious.
He wanted to do "enough, but not too much," he said.
But he quietly agreed to send two more Marine battalions and changed their mission from base security to active combat.
For the first time, American troops were being asked to fight on their own in Vietnam.
Johnson did not want that fact revealed to the American public either.
But the bombing of the North and rumors of harsher measures to come had heightened concern around the world.
UN Secretary-General U Thant had proposed a three-month ceasefire.
Great Britain, America's closest ally, publicly offered to reconvene the Geneva Talks that had divided Vietnam in 1954, with the goal of reuniting it.
The people of South Vietnam be allowed to guide their own country...
On April 7, at Johns Hopkins University, Johnson sought to persuade the world of America's good intentions and again to calm American fears of a wider war.
In recent months, attacks on South Vietnam were stepped up.
Thus, it became necessary for us to increase our response and to make attacks by air.
This is not a change of purpose.
It is a change in what we believe that purpose requires.
Nothing was said about the new orders sending Marines directly into combat.
Instead, the president called for "unconditional discussions" with Hanoi, and as an old New Dealer, proposed a massive development program for all of Southeast Asia.
The vast Mekong River can provide food and water and power on a scale to dwarf even our own TVA.
I was outside of the village.
We're getting some fire from the village.
I had the little transistor radio.
And I'm sitting there listening to LBJ.
...will use our power with restraint and with all the wisdom...
At the same time we got to lay some nape on the village.
So I'm calling in the nape and listening to the president talk peace.
We will try to keep conflict from spreading.
It was surreal.
We have no desire to devastate that which the people of North Vietnam have built with toil and sacrifice.
This war, like most wars, is filled with terrible irony.
What do the people of North Vietnam want? Hanoi denounced the president's offer as a trick.
Johnson's advisors and the Joint Chiefs of Staff continued to debate how many men would actually be needed and how rapidly they should be deployed.
Meanwhile, the president sent the first Army combat troops to the country.
It was increasingly clear that the United States was in it for the long haul.
You can't just be a neutral witness to something like war.
It crawls down your throat.
It eats you alive from the inside and the out.
It's not something that you can stand back and be neutral and objective and all of those things we try to be as reporters, journalists, photographers.
It doesn't work that way.
They're fast and they're real quick... And check it out...
The growing presence of American combat troops in Vietnam attracted flocks of journalists.
There was no press censorship, as there had been in World War II.
Reporters just had to agree to follow military guidelines so as not to compromise the security of ongoing operations.
It was dangerous work.
More than 200 journalists and photographers would die covering the fighting in Southeast Asia.
Joseph Lee Galloway was a young UPI reporter from Refugio, Texas.
He stopped in Saigon just long enough to get his credentials.
Then he headed for Danang.
The Marines originally came ashore there to guard the airbase.
And they quickly figured out you can't just guard an airbase.
You've got to spread out because they're going to mortar it, they're going to shoot rockets.
So you've got to reach out 15 or 20 miles.
That means you've got to run operations that far out.
And once you're doing that, you're no longer guarding an airbase...
...you're operating in hostile territory.
No matter how strong you are, if you aren't familiar with the battlefield, with the climate, with the local customs, it will be very tough.
The Americans were very tall and slow.
They weren't as quick as our soldiers.
It wasn't so much the Viet Cong that were intimidating at that point as it was the terrain.
Going from Point A to Point B in the jungle was so difficult.
As it happened to me once, it took four hours to move a half a mile, cutting through this bush with machetes.
The Viet Cong knew the terrain far better than the Marines did, and ran circles around them.
Fort Dix, June 10, 1965.
Dear Mom, Basic is now all over and I am presently waiting for orders.
Waiting for orders could be very dull, but I have found there are excellent chances to do some reading.
Recently I have read Wuthering Heights, Animal Farm, Seven Pillars of Wisdom, and Lord Jim.
I hope you are all well.
Love, Mogie.
Mogie Crocker was allowed two weeks at home before shipping out to Vietnam.
We were at dinner one evening just talking, I guess, in generalities about the war and the general situation.
And Mogie said, "Of course if I were a Vietnamese, I would be on the side of the Viet Cong." That... I puzzled over that.
I suppose relating like to our American Revolution that he saw their need for their own freedom.
But as an American citizen, he saw the larger picture of trying to prevent communism.
I remember one night in particular he and I were up late.
And he suddenly leaned his head in his hands.
And he said, "I don't want to go back." I was dumbstruck.
And said to him, "But this is what you want to do." It had never occurred to me that he was torn about this, that he was afraid and yet was determined to go.
In South Vietnam, things were steadily growing worse.
In May, the Viet Cong, supported now by four regiments of North Vietnamese regulars, approximately 5,000 men, were destroying the equivalent of a South Vietnamese battalion every week.
South Vietnam now seemed only weeks from complete collapse.
Desperate, General Westmoreland requested tens of thousands of more American troops right away.
But neither the continuing bombing nor the growing likelihood of full-scale American intervention seemed to intimidate Hanoi.
Le Duan, having failed to win the war before the United States sent in ground troops, was now persuaded the American public, like the French public before them, would eventually weary of a costly, bloody war being waged so far from home.
By contrast, he said, "The North will not count the cost." Le Duan's confidence was bolstered by the help American intervention had forced the Soviet Union and China to offer him.
Moscow agreed to supply vast amounts of modern weaponry and materiel.
Hanoi would eventually become the most heavily defended city on Earth.
And China agreed to send support troops, freeing North Vietnamese soldiers for combat in the South.
320,000 Chinese would eventually serve behind the lines in the North.
We will fight, Le Duan promised, "whatever way the United States wants." In June of 1965, Secretary McNamara, the Secretary of Defense, came out to Saigon.
There were a lot of captains and majors and lieutenants.
And every person said to Mr. McNamara, "The situation is so dire we must bring in United States forces." So, whatever doubts we may have had, whatever people may say after the fact, I recall distinctly at the time telling the Secretary of Defense that I thought we needed to bring troops in there.
For three weeks, the president and his advisors argued over how to respond to Westmoreland's urgent request for more troops, differing mostly over how many should be sent how fast.
Undersecretary of State, George Ball, made the argument against further escalation.
He told the president the war could not be won.
The American people will grow weary of it.
Our troops will get bogged down "in the jungles and rice paddies," he warned, "while we slowly blow the country to pieces." No one else agreed.
In the end, Johnson sent Westmoreland 50,000 men.
But he pledged another 50,000 by the end of 1965, and still more if they were needed.
When the Americans come in 1965, everything mess up in South Vietnam.
Nobody know about the country, the people, the ground they fought.
I think it's, it's a big mistake.
Hold your fire! Hold your fire.
Does the fact that you are sending additional forces to Vietnam imply any change in the existing policy of using American forces to guard American installations and to act as an emergency backup? It does not imply any change in policy whatever.
It does not imply any change of objective.
The month of June saw soldiers here taking what appears to be...
Most television reports from Vietnam echoed the newsreels Americans had flocked to see during the Second World War. Enthusiastic, unquestioning, good guys fighting and defeating bad guys.
But at dinnertime on August 5, 1965, Americans saw another side of the war.
We're on the outskirts of the village of Cam Ne with elements of the 1st Battalion...
CBS correspondent Morley Safer and his crew went on patrol with Marines near Danang.
Their orders were first to search a cluster of four villages for caches of arms and rice meant for the enemy and then to destroy them all.
This is what the war in Vietnam is all about.
The old and the very young.
The Marines have burned this old couple's cottage because fire was coming from here.
And now when you walk into the village you see no young people at all.
The day's operation burned down 150 houses, wounded three women, killed one baby, wounded one Marine, and netted these four prisoners.
Today's operation is the frustration of Vietnam in miniature.
There is little doubt that American firepower can win a military victory here.
But to a Vietnamese peasant whose home is a... Means a lifetime of backbreaking labor, it will take more than presidential promises to convince him that we are on his side.
The next morning, the president called his friend Frank Stanton, the head of CBS.
Hello, Frank, this is your president.        
Are you trying to fuck me?" Safer had defaced the American flag, Johnson said.
He was probably an agent of the Kremlin, had to be fired.
The Marines claimed Safer had provided a Zippo lighter and asked the Marines to burn the hut for the camera.
A major at the Danang Marine press office called CBS the "Communist Broadcasting System." But after the operation, Safer interviewed some of the Marines who'd burned Cam Ne.
Do you ever have any private thoughts, any private regrets about some of these people you are leaving homeless? I feel no remorse. I don't imagine anybody else does.
You can't expect to do your job and feel pity for these people.
When some viewers registered their shock, Westmoreland admitted, "We have a genuine problem which will be with us as long as we are in Vietnam.
Commanders must exercise restraint unnatural to war and judgment not often required of young men." You kind of thought at first that it was going to be like the GIs, you know, rolling through Paris after the liberation.
Well, you know, it sure didn't work out that way.
I can remember once going in this one ville.
And I remember finding this entire Vietnamese family cowering in a bunker.
And they were terrified of us.
And I remember thinking to myself, I said, "Well, I wonder if back in the colonial days, when the Redcoats barged into Ipswich, Massachusetts, or wherever, if this is how Americans must have felt looking at these foreign soldiers coming in here." The Viet Cong have terrorized you, and have burned your homes.
We are here to help you.
To show how much we are able to protect you, we are going to have the Air Force hit some Viet Cong on the other side of the valley.
That will be at 10:30.
Dear Mom and Dad, I am now with the 1st Brigade, 101st Airborne Division in Vietnam.
What is taking place in America? We who are in Vietnam find these protests very hard to comprehend, and many people here are quite bitter about them.
The belief I have in our present policy has been completely confirmed by what I have seen here.
My chief worry is that these pacifist bleatings might affect even a small change in government policy at a time when we appear close to success.
As Vietnam began to be more and more chaotic, I certainly wondered very much whether we should be there.
But I never expressed that to him.
That's one of those conflicts that's just too difficult to bring up, or at least it was for me.
We were all excited about the arrival of the 1st Cavalry Division, an experimental unit.
They've been trained in air-mobile warfare using these helicopters to the absolute maximum benefit.
They're moving their artillery by helicopter, jumping it, leapfrogging troops, chasing the enemy, driving him crazy.
This is something new, and it's going to change the way we do war.
In September of 1965, the newly created 1st Cavalry Division, 16,000 men, 1600 vehicles, 435 helicopters, had begun arriving at An Khe, a massive base carved out of the grasslands at the edge of the Central Highlands.
Its heliport would come to be called the "Golf Course." As the 1st Cavalry got used to its new surroundings, thousands of North Vietnamese regulars were slipping south into the Highlands along the Ho Chi Minh Trail, joining Viet Cong units already in place.
They established their own base on and around a jumble of thickly forested mountains and ravines south of the Ia Drang River.
On the evening of October 19, communist commandos slipped to within 40 yards of the perimeter wire of the U.S. Special Forces outpost at Plei Me, which was defended by a 12-man team of U.S. Green Berets, 14 A.R.V.N., and some 400 mountain tribesmen.
Nine of the 12 Green Berets were hit.
They managed to hold out for two days before 15 more Green Berets and 160 South Vietnamese Rangers were helicoptered in, commanded by Major Charles Beckwith, known to his fellow soldiers as Chargin' Charlie.
The next day, Joe Galloway managed to talk a helicopter pilot into flying him into the besieged camp.
That's where I met Major Charles Beckwith.
He said, "I need everything in the world.
And what has the Army in its wisdom sent me but a godforsaken reporter?" He drug me over and showed me a 30-caliber air-cooled machine gun.
He showed me how to load it, how to clear a jam.
You can shoot the little brown men outside the wire, Beckwith told Galloway.
You may not shoot the little brown men inside the wire. They are mine. And I'm sitting there thinking, "Ah, I'm a civilian noncombatant." I tried that line on Beckwith and he said, "Ain't no such thing in these mountains, son." For nearly a week, the North Vietnamese launched assault after assault on Plei Me.
It was only after American bombs and napalm turned the surrounding terrain into a moonscape that the enemy withdrew.
What kind of fighters are the Viet Cong that you met here? I would give anything to have 200 of them under my command.
They're the finest soldiers I've ever seen.
-The Viet Cong. -That's right.
They're dedicated, and they're good soldiers.
They're the best I've ever seen.
Despite the losses, his men had suffered at Plei Me, the North Vietnamese commander, General Chu Huy Man, was eager for another confrontation with the Americans.
He was determined to learn how to fight them.
Reinforcements streaming down the Ho Chi Minh Trail to the Ia Drang Valley included a newly minted second lieutenant, Lo Khac Tam, who had volunteered to fight in the South.
I had a girlfriend, but I didn't tell her about it, because it was a secret mission.
After we got to the Chu Pong mountains, I realized that to be an officer I would have to learn to command.
And the best way to learn would be in battle.
On the morning of November 14, 1965, 1st Cavalry helicopters belonging to the 1st Battalion of the 7th Regiment, George Armstrong Custer's old outfit, flew west along the Ia Drang toward the Chu Pong Massif, looking for the enemy.
Their commander, Kentucky-born Korean-War veteran Lieutenant Colonel Hal Moore, had been told there was a large enemy base camp somewhere on its slopes.
His orders were to take his understrength outfit, 29 officers and just 411 men, find the enemy and kill him.
There were two clearings large enough for Moore to bring in eight choppers at once.
He chose the one closest to the mountain, Landing Zone X-Ray.
Moore made a point of leading from the front.
He was the first man off the first chopper.
He sent four six-man squads 100 yards in every direction.
The Ia Drang Valley was so beautiful, one soldier remembered, it reminded him of a national park back home.
Within minutes, Moore's men captured a deserter.
Terrified and trembling, he said there were three battalions of soldiers on the mountain, 1600 men.
They wanted very much to kill Americans, he said, but so far had been unable to find any.
Moore quickly set up a command post behind one of the huge termite mounds that dotted the clearing.
It would take until mid-afternoon for all of his men to be ferried in.
He had no time to waste.
We needed to get off the landing zone and get at them before they could hit us, Moore remembered.
He sent two companies up the slope toward the hidden enemy.
Most of the North Vietnamese, like the Americans, were new to combat.
They were ordered to fix bayonets.
It was a modern battle, but we were told the bayonet symbolized our fighting spirit, attached to the barrels of our rifles.
Colonel Moore had no way of knowing that instead of 1600 enemy soldiers on the mountain, there were 3,000, seven times his strength.
Within minutes, the Americans found themselves under attack from hundreds of North Vietnamese soldiers.
In the fighting, an overeager second lieutenant led his platoon of 28 men too far away from the rest of his company and was surrounded.
The lieutenant was killed.
The sergeant who took his place was shot through the head.
By late afternoon, only seven of the trapped platoon's men were still capable of firing back.
Moore was now engaged in three simultaneous struggles, to defend the landing zone, attack the North Vietnamese, and find a way to rescue his trapped patrol.
That night, Joe Galloway again managed to talk his way onto a chopper, taking ammunition and water to the besieged Americans.
As the helicopter approached the battlefield, Galloway was sitting on a crate of grenades, peering out into the darkness.
And I could see these little pin pricks of light coming down the mountain.
This was the enemy approaching for the next day's attacks.
We flew in there.
As they pulled on out, it was dead dark.
And we're lying there waiting for someone to come tell us what to do.
And the next morning, all of a sudden the bottom fell out.
There was an explosion of fire.
The noise is horrendous, unimaginable.
And in the middle of all of this, you know, I just flattened out on the ground because all that was being fired seemed to be about two, two-and-a-half feet off the ground.
Hundreds of enemy soldiers hurled themselves at the Americans.
They wore webbed helmets camouflaged with grass, and as they came, blowing whistles, screaming, they looked like little trees, one American remembered.
They were trying to overrun us.
And they came close.
They came close.
But we had two things going for us.
We had a great commander and great soldiers.
And we had air and artillery support out the yin-yang.
We had it, and they didn't.
But using that air and artillery support could be dangerous.
Each of Moore's units carefully marked its position with smoke to keep from being mistaken for the enemy by American airmen overhead.
We had to get close.
If we didn't, we would be killed right away.
Some 18,000 artillery shells would be called in over the course of the battle, some of them landing just 25 yards from Moore's own men.
Helicopter gunships fired 3,000 rockets into the enemy.
The forward air controller called for every available aircraft in South Vietnam to come and help.
Warplanes, including B-52 long-range strategic bombers, were stacked at 1,000-foot intervals above the battlefield, from 7,000 to 35,000 feet, impatiently awaiting targets to strafe, or bomb, or burn.
By God, Moore said, "they sent us over here to kill communists and that's what we're doing." I looked up, and there were two jets aiming directly at our command post.
He's dropped two cans of napalm and it's coming toward us, loblolly, end over end.
And these kids, two or three of 'em, plus a sergeant, had dug a hole or two over on the edge.
And I looked as the thing exploded...
And two of them were dancing in that fire.
And there's a rush, a roar, from the air that's being consumed and drawn in as this, this hell come to earth is burning there.
And as that dies back a little, then you can hear the screams.
And someone yells, "Get this man's feet." And I reach down and the boots crumble, and the flesh is cooked off of his ankles.
And I feel those bones in the palms of my hands.
I can feel it now.
He died two days later.
A kid named Jim Nakayama out of Rigby, Idaho.
By ten o'clock that morning, American airpower had beaten back the enemy assault.
The survivors from the trapped platoon were rescued that afternoon.
They had been pinned to the ground and under fire for so long that they had to be coaxed into getting to their feet again.
On the morning of the next day, enemy soldiers hurled themselves against the same sector of Moore's line four more times and were obliterated by artillery and machine gun fire.
The surviving North Vietnamese and Viet Cong withdrew into the forest, leaving behind a ghastly ring of their dead surrounding the landing zone, 634 corpses, shot, blasted, blackened by fire.
When I saw my soldiers dying, I felt deep sorrow for them.
I did't cry, I tried to hold back tears.
We were shocked psychologically.
After three days and two nights of combat, helicopters began lifting out the American survivors and gathering up the dead.
When you look at them, it doesn't even resemble a human body.
It just, it looks just like a mannequin.
You look at them and say, "That couldn't happen to me." I saw them fight at Ia Drang.
It always galls me when I read or hear about the World War II generation as the greatest generation.
These kids were just as gallant and as courageous as anybody who fought in World War II.
Seventy-nine of Hal Moore's men lost their lives at Landing Zone X-Ray in the Ia Drang Valley and another 121 were wounded.
Please convey to the American people what a tremendous fighting man we have here.
He's courageous, he's aggressive, and he's kind.
And he'll go where you tell him to go.
And he's got self-discipline.
And he's got good unit discipline.
He's just an outstanding man.
And...
Having commanded this battalion for 18 months...
You must excuse my emotion here, but when I see some of these men go out the way they have...
I haven't...
I can't tell you how highly I feel for them.
They're tremendous.
Hal Moore refused to leave until every single man in his command had been accounted for.
He had been the first of his men to step onto Landing Zone X-Ray, and he made sure he was the last to leave it.
The war we fought was so horribly brutal that I don't have the words to describe it.
I worry, how can we ever explain to the younger generation the price their parents and grandparents paid? The North Vietnamese suffered terrible losses in the Ia Drang Valley and many of the survivors were traumatized.
The units were enveloped in an atmosphere of gloom, a North Vietnamese colonel remembered.
Some men would not leave their rope hammocks.
Some refused to wash.
One soldier wrote a poem expressive of their plight, "The crab lies still on the chopping block Never knowing when the knife will fall." In the Ia Drang we killed ten of them for every one of us.
That's a ten-to-one kill ratio is how the military puts that.
But the enemy, he was fully prepared to pay that price and more for the value of the lessons he learned.
To fight the Americans, we had to get close, grab them by the belt.
If we didn't, we couldn't fight them, and we would be killed.
Grab 'em by the belt buckle.
That means you've got to get so close, they can't use the artillery and the aerial bombardments on you for fear of killing their own.
Get in so close that it's man-on-man.
And then everything is even.
The Vietnamese suffered hundreds of dead attacking Hal Moore's battalion at LZ X-Ray.
But then they ambushed another battalion a couple of days later and wiped it out.
In the fighting near Landing Zone Albany, the enemy had gotten too close for artillery to be called in.
Out of some 425 Americans involved, 155 were killed.
124 more were wounded.
Both sides claimed victory in the Ia Drang Valley.
The Americans talked up the number of enemy dead at Landing Zone X-Ray.
The ratio of losses to your kill...
The North Vietnamese took their lessons from Landing Zone Albany.
I don't anticipate that this conflict will end any time soon, and we could find that we have more difficult days ahead.
Certainly we must be prepared for this.
In the fall of my senior year, November 1965, was that huge battle at the Ia Drang Valley, which was the first time there was actually confirmed North Vietnamese regular soldiers as opposed to Viet Cong.
And of course my way of interpreting that was, "There it is, that's the proof.
The North Vietnamese are the aggressors here." And that's when I began thinking in terms of, maybe I don't want to go to college right away.
Maybe I'll join the Marines.
And it was always the Marines. I never...
There was no question.
The Marine Corps is full of little guys like me with chips on our shoulder.
The battles in the Ia Drang Valley may have been declared American victories, but privately, General Westmoreland and the Johnson administration were worried.
In spite of the Americans' new airborne mobility, the enemy had been able to choose the place and time of battle.
The intelligence on which basic decisions had been made in Washington had been uniformly bad.
There were now believed to be 12 Viet Cong regiments in South Vietnam, not just five.
Nine North Vietnamese regiments, not three.
Despite months of bombing, three times as many North Vietnamese regulars were now slipping south of the demilitarized zone as originally believed.
Hanoi seemed to be escalating, too.
And American casualties were climbing.
When Senator Fritz Hollings visited Saigon shortly after the Ia Drang battles, General Westmoreland told him, "We're killing these people at a rate of ten to one." Hollings warned him, "Westy, the American people don't care about the ten.
They care about the one." Westmoreland, who had said he could win the war in three years, now sent an urgent cable to Washington asking for 200,000 more troops.
The message came as a shattering blow, Robert McNamara remembered.
Once again, he offered Johnson two options, try to negotiate a compromise with Hanoi, or accede to Westmoreland's request for more men, though the chances of victory, the secretary of defense said, might be no better than one in three.
And then they all sat down and voted for option two.
My bitterness about the political powers at the time was, first of all, the lying.
I mean, I can understand a policy error that is incredibly, incredibly painful and kills a lot of people out of a mistake if they made that with noble hearts.
That was, you know, when Eisenhower and Kennedy were trying to figure things out.
And you read that, you know, McNamara knew by '65, it was just three years before I was there that the war was unwinnable.
That's what makes me mad.
Making a mistake, people can do that.
But covering up mistakes, then you're killing people for your own ego.
And that makes me mad.
Tens of thousands of American troops continued to prepare to deploy to Vietnam from all over the country, and General Westmoreland and his commanders drew up plans for major offensives in the new year of 1966.
Meanwhile, hoping the Soviets might help bring Hanoi to the bargaining table, McNamara urged the president to declare a halt to the bombing of North Vietnam.
Over the objections of the military, who worried it would give the enemy time to rebuild its defenses, Johnson agreed to stop the bombing on Christmas Eve.
If it achieved nothing else, he said, it would show the American people that before he committed more of their sons to battle, "We have gone the last mile." Well, Christmas always meant a great deal in our family.
We sent packages to Denton, of course.
Then a neighbor mentioned to me that she heard a local television station was offering free tapes to be made to send to a soldier overseas.
We dressed up for the cameras.
The idea was that we would each just say something about what we were doing and wish him well.
It was a horrible day for me.
It made it so real that he was far away.
Well, Mogie, here we are.
It's... Let's see, what day is today? -Here it is, Saturday... - -November 13. -November 13, and station WTEN has given us a chance to talk to you.
We all wish you a Merry Christmas, to start out with.
Rand, what do you got to say to Mogie? Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas, darling.
We sent your packages and there's one that's waiting for you at home.
It's a record of fife and drum music that we got for you at Williamsburg.
Candy? My teacher isn't very nice, and she always is crabby, and I don't like school at all.
-Now I'm a brownie. - Merry Christmas.
Happy Christmas, Mogie.
I think I'm getting new skis for Christmas.
So when you get home, we can get together sometime.
We do all wish you a very Merry Christmas, and we'll be thinking of you on Christmas Day.
We miss you, sweetheart.